src/platforms/python/common/performance/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Performance Monitoring
description: "Learn more about how to configure our Performance integrations to get the best experience out of it."
---

Sentry allows you to monitor the performance of your application, showing you how latency in one service may affect another service, and letting you pinpoint exactly which parts of a given operation may be responsible. To do this, it captures distributed traces consisting of transactions and spans, which measure individual services and individual operations within those services, respectively. You can learn more about this model in our [Distributed Tracing](/product/performance/distributed-tracing/) docs. Performance Monitoring is available for the Sentry Python SDK version ≥ 0.11.2.

## Enabling Tracing

To get started automatically sending traces you can:
 - Set a uniform sample rate for all transactions, by setting the `traces_sample_rate` option in your SDK config to a number between `0` and `1`. (For example, to send 20% of transactions, set `traces_sample_rate` to `0.2`.)
 - Control the sample rate dynamically, based on the transaction itself and the context in which it's captured, by providing a function to the `traces_sampler` config option.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/enable-tracing" />

Your application will now start automatically capturing transactions.

<Note>

When you first enable tracing, the easiest thing to do to test it is to set `traces_sample_rate` to `1.0`, because that guarantees that every transaction will be sent to Sentry for you to see.

Once you're done with testing, however, we recommend that you either **lower your `traces_sample_rate` value, or switch to using `traces_sampler` to dynamically sample and filter your transactions**.

Without sampling, our automatic instrumentation will send a transaction with every server request, celery task, etc (depending on which integrations you're using), which can add up quickly. Sampling allows you to send representative data without overwhelming either your system or your Sentry transaction quota.

</Note>

## Manual Instrumentation

To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create a transaction to capture them.

The following example creates a transaction for a scope that contains an expensive operation (for example, `process_item`), and sends the result to Sentry:

```python
from sentry_sdk import start_transaction

while True:
  item = get_from_queue()

  with start_transaction(op="task", name=item.get_transaction_name()):
      # process_item may create more spans internally (see next examples)
      process_item(item)
```

### Adding More Spans to the Transaction

The next example contains the implementation of the hypothetical `process_item` function called from the code snippet in the previous section. Our SDK can determine if there is currently an open transaction and add all newly created spans as child operations to that transaction. Keep in mind that each individual span also needs to be manually finished; otherwise, spans will not show up in the transaction. When using spans and transactions as context managers, they are automatically finished at the end of the `with` block.

In cases where you want to attach Spans to an already ongoing Transaction you can use `Hub.current.scope.transaction`. This property will return a `Transaction` in case there is a running Transaction otherwise it returns `None`.

Alternatively, instead of adding to the top-level transaction, you can make a child span of the current span, if there is one. Use `Hub.current.scope.span` in that case.

You can choose the value of `op` and `description`.

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

def process_item(item):
    transaction = Hub.current.scope.transaction
    # omitted code...
    with transaction.start_child(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
        response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
        span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
        span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```

The alternative to make a tree of spans:

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

def process_item(item):
    parent_span = Hub.current.scope.span
    # omitted code...
    with parent_span.start_child(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
        response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
        span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
        span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```

### Retrieving a Transaction

In cases where you want to attach Spans to an already ongoing Transaction you can use `Hub.current.scope.transaction`. This property will return a `Transaction` in case there is a running Transaction otherwise it returns `None`.

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

transaction = Hub.current.scope.transaction

if transaction is None:
    with start_transaction(name="task"):
        do_task()
else:
    transaction.name = "new name"
    with transaction.start_child(op="task"):
        do_task()
```

### Retrieving the Current Span

Started spans are stored in the scope, and can be fetched off the scope:

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

span = Hub.current.scope.span

if span is None:
    # no span in progress, create new transaction
    with start_transaction(name="task"):
        do_task()
else:
    # new task span as child of current span
    with span.start_child(op="task"):
        do_task()
```

### Adding Query Information and Parameters to Spans

Currently, every tag has a maximum character limit of 200 characters. Tags over the 200 character limit will become truncated, losing potentially important information. To retain this data, you can split data over several tags instead.

For example, a 200+ character tagged request:

`https://empowerplant.io/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form/?user_id=314159265358979323846264338327&tracking_id=EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi&product_name=PlantToHumanTranslator&product_id=161803398874989484820458683436563811772030917980576`

The 200+ character request above will become truncated to:

`https://empowerplant.io/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form/?user_id=314159265358979323846264338327&tracking_id=EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi&product_name=PlantToHumanTranslator&product_id=1618033988749894848`

Instead, using `span.set_tag` and `span.set_data` preserves the details of this query using structured metadata. This could be done over `base_url`, `endpoint`, and `parameters`:

```python
import sentry_sdk

# ...

base_url = "https://empowerplant.io"
endpoint = "/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form"
parameters = {
    "user_id": 314159265358979323846264338327,
    "tracking_id": "EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi",
    "product_name": PlantToHumanTranslator,
    "product_id": 161803398874989484820458683436563811772030917980576,
}

with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="request", transaction="setup form") as span:
    span.set_tag("base_url", base_url)
    span.set_tag("endpoint", endpoint)
    span.set_data("parameters", parameters)
    make_request(
        "{base_url}/{endpoint}/".format(
            base_url=base_url,
            endpoint=endpoint,
        ),
        data=parameters
    )

    # ...
```

Commit message:

ref(tracing): Improve note about sampling on Python page (#2607)

src/platforms/python/common/performance/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Performance Monitoring
description: "Learn more about how to configure our Performance integrations to get the best experience out of it."
---

Sentry allows you to monitor the performance of your application, showing you how latency in one service may affect another service, and letting you pinpoint exactly which parts of a given operation may be responsible. To do this, it captures distributed traces consisting of transactions and spans, which measure individual services and individual operations within those services, respectively. You can learn more about this model in our [Distributed Tracing](/product/performance/distributed-tracing/) docs. Performance Monitoring is available for the Sentry Python SDK version ≥ 0.11.2.

## Enabling Tracing

To get started automatically sending traces you can:

- Set a uniform sample rate for all transactions, by setting the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> option in your SDK config to a number between `0` and `1`. (For example, to send 20% of transactions, set <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> to `0.2`.)
- Control the sample rate dynamically, based on the transaction itself and the context in which it's captured, by providing a function to the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> config option.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/enable-tracing" />

If either of these options is set, tracing will be enabled in your app, and transactions will start getting captured automatically. (The two options are meant to be mutually exclusive, but if you do set both, <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> will take precedence.)

As you're getting tracing set up, we recommend setting <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> to `1`, so all created transactions are sent to Sentry. Once you're done with testing, though, you'll probably want to consider either **lowering your <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> value, or switching to <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" />**, which will allow you to set the sample rate individually for each transaction. Without sampling, automatically-captured transactions can add up quickly. (The Flask integration, for example, will send a transaction for every request made to the server.) Sampling allows you to send representative data without overwhelming either your system or your Sentry transaction quota.

You can learn more about the <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" /> and <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sampler" /> options in <PlatformLink to="/performance/sampling/">Sampling Transactions</PlatformLink>.

## Manual Instrumentation

To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create a transaction to capture them.

The following example creates a transaction for a scope that contains an expensive operation (for example, `process_item`), and sends the result to Sentry:

```python
from sentry_sdk import start_transaction

while True:
  item = get_from_queue()

  with start_transaction(op="task", name=item.get_transaction_name()):
      # process_item may create more spans internally (see next examples)
      process_item(item)
```

### Adding More Spans to the Transaction

The next example contains the implementation of the hypothetical `process_item` function called from the code snippet in the previous section. Our SDK can determine if there is currently an open transaction and add all newly created spans as child operations to that transaction. Keep in mind that each individual span also needs to be manually finished; otherwise, spans will not show up in the transaction. When using spans and transactions as context managers, they are automatically finished at the end of the `with` block.

In cases where you want to attach Spans to an already ongoing Transaction you can use `Hub.current.scope.transaction`. This property will return a `Transaction` in case there is a running Transaction otherwise it returns `None`.

Alternatively, instead of adding to the top-level transaction, you can make a child span of the current span, if there is one. Use `Hub.current.scope.span` in that case.

You can choose the value of `op` and `description`.

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

def process_item(item):
    transaction = Hub.current.scope.transaction
    # omitted code...
    with transaction.start_child(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
        response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
        span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
        span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```

The alternative to make a tree of spans:

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

def process_item(item):
    parent_span = Hub.current.scope.span
    # omitted code...
    with parent_span.start_child(op="http", description="GET /") as span:
        response = my_custom_http_library.request("GET", "/")
        span.set_tag("http.status_code", response.status_code)
        span.set_data("http.foobarsessionid", get_foobar_sessionid())
```

### Retrieving a Transaction

In cases where you want to attach Spans to an already ongoing Transaction you can use `Hub.current.scope.transaction`. This property will return a `Transaction` in case there is a running Transaction otherwise it returns `None`.

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

transaction = Hub.current.scope.transaction

if transaction is None:
    with start_transaction(name="task"):
        do_task()
else:
    transaction.name = "new name"
    with transaction.start_child(op="task"):
        do_task()
```

### Retrieving the Current Span

Started spans are stored in the scope, and can be fetched off the scope:

```python
from sentry_sdk import Hub

span = Hub.current.scope.span

if span is None:
    # no span in progress, create new transaction
    with start_transaction(name="task"):
        do_task()
else:
    # new task span as child of current span
    with span.start_child(op="task"):
        do_task()
```

### Adding Query Information and Parameters to Spans

Currently, every tag has a maximum character limit of 200 characters. Tags over the 200 character limit will become truncated, losing potentially important information. To retain this data, you can split data over several tags instead.

For example, a 200+ character tagged request:

`https://empowerplant.io/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form/?user_id=314159265358979323846264338327&tracking_id=EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi&product_name=PlantToHumanTranslator&product_id=161803398874989484820458683436563811772030917980576`

The 200+ character request above will become truncated to:

`https://empowerplant.io/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form/?user_id=314159265358979323846264338327&tracking_id=EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi&product_name=PlantToHumanTranslator&product_id=1618033988749894848`

Instead, using `span.set_tag` and `span.set_data` preserves the details of this query using structured metadata. This could be done over `base_url`, `endpoint`, and `parameters`:

```python
import sentry_sdk

# ...

base_url = "https://empowerplant.io"
endpoint = "/api/0/projects/ep/setup_form"
parameters = {
    "user_id": 314159265358979323846264338327,
    "tracking_id": "EasyAsABC123OrSimpleAsDoReMi",
    "product_name": PlantToHumanTranslator,
    "product_id": 161803398874989484820458683436563811772030917980576,
}

with sentry_sdk.start_span(op="request", transaction="setup form") as span:
    span.set_tag("base_url", base_url)
    span.set_tag("endpoint", endpoint)
    span.set_data("parameters", parameters)
    make_request(
        "{base_url}/{endpoint}/".format(
            base_url=base_url,
            endpoint=endpoint,
        ),
        data=parameters
    )

    # ...
```
