src/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions/index.mdx, before:

---
title: GCP Functions
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/gcp_functions/
---

_(New in version 0.17.1)_

## Install

Add the Sentry SDK to your `requirements.txt`:

```text {filename:requirements.txt}
 sentry-sdk>=0.17.1
```

## Configure

You can use the GCP Functions integration for the Python SDK like this:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.gcp import GcpIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[GcpIntegration()],
)

def http_function_entrypoint(request):
    # ...
```

Check out Sentry's [GCP sample apps](https://github.com/getsentry/examples/tree/master/gcp-cloud-functions) for detailed examples.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

If you are using another web framework inside of GCP Functions, the framework might catch those exceptions before we get to see them. Make sure to enable the framework specific integration as well, if one exists. See [_Integrations_](/platforms/python/#integrations) for more information.

</markdown></Alert>

### Timeout Warning

The timeout warning reports an issue when the function execution time is near
the [configured timeout](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/concepts/exec#timeout).

To enable the warning, update the SDK initialization to set `timeout_warning` to
`true`:

```python
sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[GcpIntegration(timeout_warning=True)],
)
```

The timeout warning is sent only if the timeout in the GCP Function configuration is set to a value greater than one second.

## Behavior

With the GCP Functions integration enabled, the Python SDK will:

- Automatically report all exceptions from your google cloud functions
- Issues reports automatically include:

  - A link to the stackdriver logs
  - Function details
  - `sys.argv` for the function
  - Function execution time (in milliseconds)
  - Function configured time (in seconds)
  - You can add more context as described [here](enriching-events/context/)

- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

Commit message:

redoing transaction updates for serverless in a new branch (#2416)
* redoing transaction updates for serverless in a new branch

* Update src/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

* fixing white spaces

* fix: Correct handling of notoc for normal doc pages (#2413)

Co-authored-by: AJ <aj@ajs-macbook-pro.lan>
Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: David Cramer <dcramer@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions/index.mdx, after:

---
title: GCP Functions
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/gcp_functions/
---

_(New in version 0.17.1)_

## Install

Add the Sentry SDK to your `requirements.txt`:

```text {filename:requirements.txt}
 sentry-sdk>=0.17.1
```

## Configure

You can use the GCP Functions integration for the Python SDK like this:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.gcp import GcpIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[GcpIntegration()],
    traces_sample_rate=1.0, # adjust the sample rate in production as needed

)

def http_function_entrypoint(request):
    # ...
```

Check out Sentry's [GCP sample apps](https://github.com/getsentry/examples/tree/master/gcp-cloud-functions) for detailed examples.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

If you are using another web framework inside of GCP Functions, the framework might catch those exceptions before we get to see them. Make sure to enable the framework specific integration as well, if one exists. See [_Integrations_](/platforms/python/#integrations) for more information.

</markdown></Alert>

### Timeout Warning

The timeout warning reports an issue when the function execution time is near
the [configured timeout](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/concepts/exec#timeout).

To enable the warning, update the SDK initialization to set `timeout_warning` to
`true`:

```python
sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[GcpIntegration(timeout_warning=True)],
)
```

The timeout warning is sent only if the timeout in the GCP Function configuration is set to a value greater than one second.

## Behavior

With the GCP Functions integration enabled, the Python SDK will:

- Automatically report all events from your Lambda Functions
- You can <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">modify the transaction sample rate</PlatformLink> using `traces_sample_rate`.
- Issues reports automatically include:

  - A link to the stackdriver logs
  - Function details
  - `sys.argv` for the function
  - Function execution time (in milliseconds)
  - Function configured time (in seconds)
  - You can add more context as described [here](enriching-events/context/)

- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.
