src/docs/contributing/pages/components.mdx, before:

---
title: MDX Components
noindex: true
---

## Alert

Render an alert callout.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

This is an alert

</markdown></Alert>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<Alert level="info" title="Note">
<markdown>

This is an alert

</markdown>
</Alert>
```

Attributes:

- `title` (string)
- `level` (string)
- `dismiss` (boolean)

See also the Note component.

## ConfigKey

Render a heading with a configuration key in the correctly cased format for a given platform.

<Note><markdown>

If content is specified, it will automatically hide the content when the given `platform` is not selected in context.

</markdown></Note>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<ConfigKey name="send-default-pii" notSupported={["javascript", "node"]}>
<markdown>

Description of send-default-pii

</markdown>
</ConfigKey>
```

Attributes:

- `name` (string)
- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `supported` (string[])
- `notSupported` (string[])

## Code Blocks

Consecutive code blocks will be automatically collapsed into a tabulated container. This behavior is generally useful if you want to define an example in multiple languages:

````markdown {tabTitle:Example}
```javascript
function foo() {
  return "bar";
}
```

```python
def foo():
  return 'bar'
```
````

Sometimes you may not want this behavior. To solve this, you can either break up the code blocks with some additional text, or use the `<Break />` component.

Additionally code blocks also support `tabTitle` and `filename` properties:

````markdown {tabTitle:Example}
```javascript {tabTitle: Hello} {filename: index.js}
var foo = "bar";
```
````

## Note

Render a note.

<Note>
<markdown>

Something important, but maybe not _that_ important.

</markdown>
</Note>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<Note>
<markdown>

Something important, but maybe not _that_ important.

</markdown>
</Note>
```

See also the [Alert component](#alert).

## PageGrid

Render all child pages of this document, including their `description` if available.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PageGrid />
```

Attributes:

- `header` (string) - optional header value to include, rendered as an H2
- `nextPages` (boolean) - only render pages which come next based on sidebar ordering

## PlatformContent

Render an include based on the currently selected `platform` in context.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformContent includePath="sdk-init" />
```

Attributes:

- `includePath` (string) - the subfolder within `src/includes` to map to
- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `fallbackPlatform` (string) - default platform for when no content matches

Some notes:

- When the current platform comes from the page context and no matching include is found, the content will be hidden.

- When the current platform comes from the page context path (not the querystring) the platform selector dropdown will be hidden.

- Similar to `PlatformSection`, you can embed content in the block which will render _before_ the given include, but only when an include is available.

- A file named `_default` will be used if no other content matches.

Note: This currently causes issues with tableOfContents generation, so its recommended to disable the TOC when using it.

## PlatformSection

Render a section based on the currently selected `platform` in context. When the platform is not valid, the content will be hidden.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript", "node"]}>
<markdown>

Something that applies to all platforms, but not javascript or node.

</markdown>
</PlatformSection>
```

Attributes:

- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `supported` (string[])
- `notSupported` (string[])

Note: This currently causes issues with tableOfContents generation, so we recommend disabling the TOC when using it.

## PlatformLink

Useful for linking to platform-specific content when there's not a specific platform already selected.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/" />
```

This will direct users to a page where they can choose the platform, and then to the appropriate link. If they're within a page that already has an active platform, it will simply link to the appropriate page and skip the redirect.

Commit message:

feat: Hide framework list from guides (#2415)
Introduce `noGuides` attribute on `PlatformContent` to enable hiding content from guide pages.

src/docs/contributing/pages/components.mdx, after:

---
title: MDX Components
noindex: true
---

## Alert

Render an alert callout.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

This is an alert

</markdown></Alert>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<Alert level="info" title="Note">
<markdown>

This is an alert

</markdown>
</Alert>
```

Attributes:

- `title` (string)
- `level` (string)
- `dismiss` (boolean)

See also the Note component.

## ConfigKey

Render a heading with a configuration key in the correctly cased format for a given platform.

<Note><markdown>

If content is specified, it will automatically hide the content when the given `platform` is not selected in context.

</markdown></Note>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<ConfigKey name="send-default-pii" notSupported={["javascript", "node"]}>
<markdown>

Description of send-default-pii

</markdown>
</ConfigKey>
```

Attributes:

- `name` (string)
- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `supported` (string[])
- `notSupported` (string[])

## Code Blocks

Consecutive code blocks will be automatically collapsed into a tabulated container. This behavior is generally useful if you want to define an example in multiple languages:

````markdown {tabTitle:Example}
```javascript
function foo() {
  return "bar";
}
```

```python
def foo():
  return 'bar'
```
````

Sometimes you may not want this behavior. To solve this, you can either break up the code blocks with some additional text, or use the `<Break />` component.

Additionally code blocks also support `tabTitle` and `filename` properties:

````markdown {tabTitle:Example}
```javascript {tabTitle: Hello} {filename: index.js}
var foo = "bar";
```
````

## Note

Render a note.

<Note>
<markdown>

Something important, but maybe not _that_ important.

</markdown>
</Note>

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<Note>
<markdown>

Something important, but maybe not _that_ important.

</markdown>
</Note>
```

See also the [Alert component](#alert).

## PageGrid

Render all child pages of this document, including their `description` if available.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PageGrid />
```

Attributes:

- `header` (string) - optional header value to include, rendered as an H2
- `nextPages` (boolean) - only render pages which come next based on sidebar ordering

## PlatformContent

Render an include based on the currently selected `platform` in context.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformContent includePath="sdk-init" />
```

Attributes:

- `includePath` (string) - the subfolder within `src/includes` to map to
- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `fallbackPlatform` (string) - default platform for when no content matches

Some notes:

- When the current platform comes from the page context and no matching include is found, the content will be hidden.

- When the current platform comes from the page context path (not the querystring) the platform selector dropdown will be hidden.

- Similar to `PlatformSection`, you can embed content in the block which will render _before_ the given include, but only when an include is available.

- A file named `_default` will be used if no other content matches.

Note: This currently causes issues with tableOfContents generation, so its recommended to disable the TOC when using it.

## PlatformSection

Render a section based on the currently selected `platform` in context. When the platform is not valid, the content will be hidden.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript", "node"]}>
<markdown>

Something that applies to all platforms, but not javascript or node.

</markdown>
</PlatformSection>
```

Attributes:

- `platform` (string) - defaults to the `platform` value from the page context or querystring
- `supported` (string[])
- `notSupported` (string[])
- `noGuides` (boolean) - hide this on all guides (takes precedence over `supported`/`notSupported`)

Note: This currently causes issues with tableOfContents generation, so we recommend disabling the TOC when using it.

## PlatformLink

Useful for linking to platform-specific content when there's not a specific platform already selected.

```markdown {tabTitle:Example}
<PlatformLink to="/enriching-events/" />
```

This will direct users to a page where they can choose the platform, and then to the appropriate link. If they're within a page that already has an active platform, it will simply link to the appropriate page and skip the redirect.
