src/docs/product/alerts-notifications/metric-alerts.mdx, before:

---
title: Metric Alerts
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/alerts-notifications/alerts/
  - /workflow/notifications/alerts/
  - /product/alerts-notifications/alerts/
description: "Learn how to configure and manage Metric Alerts."
---

Metric alerts tell you when a metric breaches a threshold, such as a spike in the number of errors in a project, or a change in a performance metric like [latency](/product/performance/metrics/#latency), [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex), [failure rate](/product/performance/metrics/#failure-rate), and [throughput](/product/performance/metrics/#throughput-total-tpm-tps). Sentry users with admin permissions or higher can create alerts.

## Alert Builder

The alert builder sets the metric alert's triggers: Critical (required) and Warning (optional). The warning trigger's threshold must be breached before the critical trigger. Triggers are evaluated approximately every minute from the highest severity to lowest.

Sentry creates an alert with the severity of the matched trigger (warning or critical). If an alert is already active, its status is updated. If no resolution threshold is specified, the alert will automatically resolve when it's no longer violating the critical or warning conditions. You can also resolve alerts manually.

![Configuration for alert threshold triggers.](alert-trigger-threshold.png)

When Sentry creates an alert or an existing alert changes status, the trigger's actions are executed. Possible actions are:

- Send an email (to a member or team). If sent to a member, the member's personal project alert opt-out settings are overridden.
- Send a [Slack](/product/integrations/slack/) notification.
- Trigger a [PagerDuty](/product/integrations/pagerduty/) incident.
- Send a request to a webhook (via [internal integrations](/product/integrations/integration-platform/#internal-integrations)).

## Alert Stream

The Alert Stream displays your metric alerts along with visual graphs, associated projects, and the last time the alert was triggered. Access alerts via the **Alerts** sidebar item.

![Alert stream illustrates alert duration, trends, severity, time duration and percentage of users affected.](alert-stream2.png)

## Alert Details

The Alert Details page provides specifics on a single instance of an alert from its creation to its resolution, or the current time if the alert is still active. The "subscribe" button subscribes you to workflow notifications for the alert, including status changes and comments.

![Alert details illustrates a graph showing errors.](alert_details.png)

Commit message:

Update minimum role for alerts to member (#2876)
Update minimum role for alerts to member

src/docs/product/alerts-notifications/metric-alerts.mdx, after:

---
title: Metric Alerts
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /workflow/alerts-notifications/alerts/
  - /workflow/notifications/alerts/
  - /product/alerts-notifications/alerts/
description: "Learn how to configure and manage Metric Alerts."
---

Metric alerts tell you when a metric breaches a threshold, such as a spike in the number of errors in a project, or a change in a performance metric like [latency](/product/performance/metrics/#latency), [Apdex](/product/performance/metrics/#apdex), [failure rate](/product/performance/metrics/#failure-rate), and [throughput](/product/performance/metrics/#throughput-total-tpm-tps).

The minimum role required to create alerts is member. Sentry users with manager or owner permissions can change the minimum role requirement in **Settings > General Settings > Grant Members Alerts Write**.

## Alert Builder

The alert builder sets the metric alert's triggers: Critical (required) and Warning (optional). The warning trigger's threshold must be breached before the critical trigger. Triggers are evaluated approximately every minute from the highest severity to lowest.

Sentry creates an alert with the severity of the matched trigger (warning or critical). If an alert is already active, its status is updated. If no resolution threshold is specified, the alert will automatically resolve when it's no longer violating the critical or warning conditions. You can also resolve alerts manually.

![Configuration for alert threshold triggers.](alert-trigger-threshold.png)

When Sentry creates an alert or an existing alert changes status, the trigger's actions are executed. Possible actions are:

- Send an email (to a member or team). If sent to a member, the member's personal project alert opt-out settings are overridden.
- Send a [Slack](/product/integrations/slack/) notification.
- Trigger a [PagerDuty](/product/integrations/pagerduty/) incident.
- Send a request to a webhook (via [internal integrations](/product/integrations/integration-platform/#internal-integrations)).

## Alert Stream

The Alert Stream displays your metric alerts along with visual graphs, associated projects, and the last time the alert was triggered. Access alerts via the **Alerts** sidebar item.

![Alert stream illustrates alert duration, trends, severity, time duration and percentage of users affected.](alert-stream2.png)

## Alert Details

The Alert Details page provides specifics on a single instance of an alert from its creation to its resolution, or the current time if the alert is still active. The "subscribe" button subscribes you to workflow notifications for the alert, including status changes and comments.

![Alert details illustrates a graph showing errors.](alert_details.png)
