src/platforms/javascript/common/sourcemaps/multiple-origins.mdx, before:

---
title: Multiple Origins
---

It’s not uncommon for a web application to be accessible at multiple origins. For example:

- Website is operable over both `https` and `http`
- Geolocated web addresses: such as `https://us.example.com`, `https://eu.example.com`
- Multiple static CDNs: such as `https://static1.example.com`, `https://static2.example.com`
- Customer-specific domains/subdomains

In this situation, **identical** JavaScript and source map files may be located at two or more distinct origins. In this situation we recommend using our special tilde (`~`) prefix on paths.

So for example, if you have the following:

- https://static1.example.com/js/app.js
- https://static2.example.com/js/app.js

You can upload using the URL of `~/js/app.js`. This will tell Sentry to ignore the domain and use the artifact for any origin.

Additionally you can also upload the same file under multiple names. Under the hood Sentry will deduplicate these.

<Note>

The ~ prefix tells Sentry that for a given URL, **any** combination of protocol and hostname whose path is `/js/app.js` should use this artifact. Use this method **only** if your source/source map files are identical at all possible protocol/hostname combinations. **Sentry will prioritize full URLs over tilde prefixed paths**, if found.

</Note>

Commit message:

Add: front matter descriptions to files in common Part II (#2588)
A few files in the Common directories needed front matter descriptions.

src/platforms/javascript/common/sourcemaps/multiple-origins.mdx, after:

---
title: Multiple Origins
description: "Learn about how identical JavaScript and source map files may be located at two or more distinct origins and what to do when this happens. "
---

It’s not uncommon for a web application to be accessible at multiple origins. For example:

- Website is operable over both `https` and `http`
- Geolocated web addresses: such as `https://us.example.com`, `https://eu.example.com`
- Multiple static CDNs: such as `https://static1.example.com`, `https://static2.example.com`
- Customer-specific domains/subdomains

In this situation, **identical** JavaScript and source map files may be located at two or more distinct origins. In this situation we recommend using our special tilde (`~`) prefix on paths.

So for example, if you have the following:

- https://static1.example.com/js/app.js
- https://static2.example.com/js/app.js

You can upload using the URL of `~/js/app.js`. This will tell Sentry to ignore the domain and use the artifact for any origin.

Additionally you can also upload the same file under multiple names. Under the hood Sentry will deduplicate these.

<Note>

The ~ prefix tells Sentry that for a given URL, **any** combination of protocol and hostname whose path is `/js/app.js` should use this artifact. Use this method **only** if your source/source map files are identical at all possible protocol/hostname combinations. **Sentry will prioritize full URLs over tilde prefixed paths**, if found.

</Note>
