src/platforms/javascript/common/troubleshooting/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve edge cases."
excerpt: ""
sidebar_order: 1000
---

If you need help solving issues with your Sentry JavaScript SDK integration, you can read the edge cases documented here. If you need additional help, you can view our forums, and customers on a paid plan may also contact support.

## Debugging Additional Data

You can view the JSON payload of an event to see how Sentry stores additional data in the event. The shape of the data may not exactly match the description.

![Red box highlighting where to find the JSON connected to an event](event_JSON.png)

For more details, see the [full documentation on Event Payload](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/).

## Max JSON Payload Size

`maxValueLength` has a default value of 250, but you can adjust this value according to your needs if your messages are longer. Please note that not every single value is affected by this option.

## CORS Attributes and Headers

To gain visibility into a JavaScript exception thrown from scripts originating from different origins, do two things:

1. Add a crossorigin=”anonymous” script attribute

```bash
 <script src="http://another-domain.com/app.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
```

The script attribute tells the browser to fetch the target file “anonymously.” Potentially user-identifying information like cookies or HTTP credentials won’t be transmitted by the browser to the server when requesting this file.

2. Add a Cross-Origin HTTP header

```bash
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a set of APIs (mostly HTTP headers) that dictate how files ought to be downloaded and served across origins.

By setting `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`, the server is indicating to browsers that any origin can fetch this file. Alternatively, you can restrict it to a known origin you control:

```bash
 Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://www.example.com
```

Most community CDNs properly set an `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header.

```bash
 $ curl --head https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.2.0/jquery.js | \
 grep -i "access-control-allow-origin"

 Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

## `instrument.js` Line Numbers for Console Log statements

If `instrument.js` displays in your console while debugging, add Sentry to your framework [blackboxing](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/blackboxing) settings like: `/@sentry/` so Chrome ignores the SDK stackframes when debugging.

## Dealing with Ad-Blockers

When you are using our CDN, ad-blocking or script-blocking extensions may prevent our SDK from being fetched and initialized properly. Because of this, any call to SDKs API will fail and may cause your application to misbehave. If this applies to your use-case, any of the following solutions will mitigate this issue.

The best way to deal with script-blocking extensions is to use the SDK package directly through the `npm` and bundle it with your application. This way, you can be sure that the code will be always be there as you expect it to be.

The second way is to download the SDK from our CDN and host it yourself. This way, the SDK will still be separated from the rest of your code, but you'll be certain that it won't be blocked since its origin will be the same as the origin of your website.

You can easily fetch it using `curl` or any other similar tool:

```bash
curl https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/5.20.1/bundle.min.js -o sentry.browser.5.20.1.min.js -s
```

The last option is to use `Proxy` guard, which will make sure that your code won't break, even when you call our SDK, which was blocked. `Proxy` is supported by all browser except Internet Explorer, though there are no extensions in this browser. Also if `Proxy` is not in any of your user's browser, it will be silently skipped, so you don't have to worry about it breaking anything.

Place this snippet immediately **above** the `<script>` tag containing our CDN bundle. The snippet in a readable format presents like this:

```javascript
if ("Proxy" in window) {
  var handler = {
    get: function(_, key) {
      return new Proxy(function(cb) {
        if (key === "flush" || key === "close") return Promise.resolve();
        if (typeof cb === "function") return cb(window.Sentry);
        return window.Sentry;
      }, handler);
    },
  };
  window.Sentry = new Proxy({}, handler);
}
```

If you would like to copy and paste the snippet directly, here it is minified:

```html
<script>
  if ("Proxy" in window) {
    var n = {
      get: function(o, e) {
        return new Proxy(function(n) {
          return "flush" === e || "close" === e
            ? Promise.resolve()
            : "function" == typeof n
            ? n(window.Sentry)
            : window.Sentry;
        }, n);
      },
    };
    window.Sentry = new Proxy({}, n);
  }
</script>
```

## Using a Client directly

To be able to manage several Sentry instances without any conflicts between them you need to create your own `Client`.
This also helps to prevent tracking of any parent application errors in case your application is integrated
inside of it. In this example we use `@sentry/browser` but it's also applicable to `@sentry/node`.

```javascript
import { BrowserClient } from "@sentry/browser";

const client = new BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

client.captureException(new Error("example"));
```

While the above sample should work perfectly fine, some methods like `configureScope` and `withScope` are missing on the `Client` because the `Hub` takes care of the state management. That's why it may be easier to create a new `Hub` and bind your `Client` to it. The result is the same but you will also get state management with it.

```javascript
import { BrowserClient, Hub } from "@sentry/browser";

const client = new BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

const hub = new Hub(client);

hub.configureScope(function(scope) {
  scope.setTag("a", "b");
});

hub.addBreadcrumb({ message: "crumb 1" });
hub.captureMessage("test");

try {
  a = b;
} catch (e) {
  hub.captureException(e);
}

hub.withScope(function(scope) {
  hub.addBreadcrumb({ message: "crumb 2" });
  hub.captureMessage("test2");
});
```

### Dealing with integrations

Integrations are setup on the `Client`, if you need to deal with multiple clients and hubs you have to make sure to also do the integration handling correctly.
Here is a working example of how to use multiple clients with multiple hubs running global integrations.

```js
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";

// Very happy integration that'll prepend and append very happy stick figure to the message
class HappyIntegration {
  constructor() {
    this.name = "HappyIntegration";
  }

  setupOnce() {
    Sentry.addGlobalEventProcessor(event => {
      const self = Sentry.getCurrentHub().getIntegration(HappyIntegration);
      // Run the integration ONLY when it was installed on the current Hub
      if (self) {
        event.message = `\\o/ ${event.message} \\o/`;
      }
      return event;
    });
  }
}

HappyIntegration.id = "HappyIntegration";

const client1 = new Sentry.BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [...Sentry.defaultIntegrations, new HappyIntegration()],
  beforeSend(event) {
    console.log("client 1", event);
    return null; // Returning null does not send the event
  },
});
const hub1 = new Sentry.Hub(client1);

const client2 = new Sentry.BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___", // Can be a different DSN
  integrations: [...Sentry.defaultIntegrations, new HappyIntegration()],
  beforeSend(event) {
    console.log("client 2", event);
    return null; // Returning null does not send the event
  },
});
const hub2 = new Sentry.Hub(client2);

hub1.run(currentHub => {
  // The hub.run method makes sure that Sentry.getCurrentHub() returns this hub during the callback
  currentHub.captureMessage("a");
  currentHub.configureScope(function(scope) {
    scope.setTag("a", "b");
  });
});

hub2.run(currentHub => {
  // The hub.run method makes sure that Sentry.getCurrentHub() returns this hub during the callback
  currentHub.captureMessage("x");
  currentHub.configureScope(function(scope) {
    scope.setTag("c", "d");
  });
});
```

## Third Party Promise Libraries

When you include and configure Sentry, our JavaScript SDK automatically attaches global handlers to _capture_ uncaught exceptions and unhandled promise rejections. You can disable this default behavior by changing the `onunhandledrejection` option to `false` in your GlobalHandlers integration and manually hook into each event handler, then call `Sentry.captureException` or `Sentry.captureMessage` directly.

You may also need to manage your configuration if you are using a third-party library to implement promises. Also, remember that browsers often implement security measures that can block error reporting when serving script files from different origins.

Commit message:

docs(javascript): Add sentry-trace header troubleshooting entry (#2938)
* docs(javascript): Add sentry-trace header troubleshooting entry

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/javascript/common/troubleshooting/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "Troubleshoot and resolve edge cases."
excerpt: ""
sidebar_order: 1000
---

If you need help solving issues with your Sentry JavaScript SDK integration, you can read the edge cases documented here. If you need additional help, you can view our forums, and customers on a paid plan may also contact support.

## Debugging Additional Data

You can view the JSON payload of an event to see how Sentry stores additional data in the event. The shape of the data may not exactly match the description.

![Red box highlighting where to find the JSON connected to an event](event_JSON.png)

For more details, see the [full documentation on Event Payload](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/).

## Max JSON Payload Size

`maxValueLength` has a default value of 250, but you can adjust this value according to your needs if your messages are longer. Please note that not every single value is affected by this option.

## CORS Attributes and Headers

To gain visibility into a JavaScript exception thrown from scripts originating from different origins, do two things:

1. Add a crossorigin=”anonymous” script attribute

```bash
 <script src="http://another-domain.com/app.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
```

The script attribute tells the browser to fetch the target file “anonymously.” Potentially user-identifying information like cookies or HTTP credentials won’t be transmitted by the browser to the server when requesting this file.

2. Add a Cross-Origin HTTP header

```bash
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a set of APIs (mostly HTTP headers) that dictate how files ought to be downloaded and served across origins.

By setting `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`, the server is indicating to browsers that any origin can fetch this file. Alternatively, you can restrict it to a known origin you control:

```bash
 Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://www.example.com
```

Most community CDNs properly set an `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header.

```bash
 $ curl --head https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.2.0/jquery.js | \
 grep -i "access-control-allow-origin"

 Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

## Unexpected OPTIONS request

If your application started to misbehave because of performing additional OPTIONS requests, it is most likely an issue with unwanted `sentry-trace` request headers, which can happen when you are using too generic a configuration for our Tracing Integration in the Browser SDK.

To fix this, change the `tracingOrigins` option during SDK initialization. For more details, see [Automatic Instrumentation](/platforms/javascript/performance/capturing/automatic/#tracingorigins) in our Performance Monitoring documentation.

## `instrument.js` Line Numbers for Console Log statements

If `instrument.js` displays in your console while debugging, add Sentry to your framework [blackboxing](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/blackboxing) settings like: `/@sentry/` so Chrome ignores the SDK stackframes when debugging.

## Dealing with Ad-Blockers

When you are using our CDN, ad-blocking or script-blocking extensions may prevent our SDK from being fetched and initialized properly. Because of this, any call to SDKs API will fail and may cause your application to misbehave. If this applies to your use-case, any of the following solutions will mitigate this issue.

The best way to deal with script-blocking extensions is to use the SDK package directly through the `npm` and bundle it with your application. This way, you can be sure that the code will be always be there as you expect it to be.

The second way is to download the SDK from our CDN and host it yourself. This way, the SDK will still be separated from the rest of your code, but you'll be certain that it won't be blocked since its origin will be the same as the origin of your website.

You can easily fetch it using `curl` or any other similar tool:

```bash
curl https://browser.sentry-cdn.com/5.20.1/bundle.min.js -o sentry.browser.5.20.1.min.js -s
```

The last option is to use `Proxy` guard, which will make sure that your code won't break, even when you call our SDK, which was blocked. `Proxy` is supported by all browser except Internet Explorer, though there are no extensions in this browser. Also if `Proxy` is not in any of your user's browser, it will be silently skipped, so you don't have to worry about it breaking anything.

Place this snippet immediately **above** the `<script>` tag containing our CDN bundle. The snippet in a readable format presents like this:

```javascript
if ("Proxy" in window) {
  var handler = {
    get: function(_, key) {
      return new Proxy(function(cb) {
        if (key === "flush" || key === "close") return Promise.resolve();
        if (typeof cb === "function") return cb(window.Sentry);
        return window.Sentry;
      }, handler);
    },
  };
  window.Sentry = new Proxy({}, handler);
}
```

If you would like to copy and paste the snippet directly, here it is minified:

```html
<script>
  if ("Proxy" in window) {
    var n = {
      get: function(o, e) {
        return new Proxy(function(n) {
          return "flush" === e || "close" === e
            ? Promise.resolve()
            : "function" == typeof n
            ? n(window.Sentry)
            : window.Sentry;
        }, n);
      },
    };
    window.Sentry = new Proxy({}, n);
  }
</script>
```

## Using a Client directly

To be able to manage several Sentry instances without any conflicts between them you need to create your own `Client`.
This also helps to prevent tracking of any parent application errors in case your application is integrated
inside of it. In this example we use `@sentry/browser` but it's also applicable to `@sentry/node`.

```javascript
import { BrowserClient } from "@sentry/browser";

const client = new BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

client.captureException(new Error("example"));
```

While the above sample should work perfectly fine, some methods like `configureScope` and `withScope` are missing on the `Client` because the `Hub` takes care of the state management. That's why it may be easier to create a new `Hub` and bind your `Client` to it. The result is the same but you will also get state management with it.

```javascript
import { BrowserClient, Hub } from "@sentry/browser";

const client = new BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

const hub = new Hub(client);

hub.configureScope(function(scope) {
  scope.setTag("a", "b");
});

hub.addBreadcrumb({ message: "crumb 1" });
hub.captureMessage("test");

try {
  a = b;
} catch (e) {
  hub.captureException(e);
}

hub.withScope(function(scope) {
  hub.addBreadcrumb({ message: "crumb 2" });
  hub.captureMessage("test2");
});
```

### Dealing with integrations

Integrations are setup on the `Client`, if you need to deal with multiple clients and hubs you have to make sure to also do the integration handling correctly.
Here is a working example of how to use multiple clients with multiple hubs running global integrations.

```js
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";

// Very happy integration that'll prepend and append very happy stick figure to the message
class HappyIntegration {
  constructor() {
    this.name = "HappyIntegration";
  }

  setupOnce() {
    Sentry.addGlobalEventProcessor(event => {
      const self = Sentry.getCurrentHub().getIntegration(HappyIntegration);
      // Run the integration ONLY when it was installed on the current Hub
      if (self) {
        event.message = `\\o/ ${event.message} \\o/`;
      }
      return event;
    });
  }
}

HappyIntegration.id = "HappyIntegration";

const client1 = new Sentry.BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [...Sentry.defaultIntegrations, new HappyIntegration()],
  beforeSend(event) {
    console.log("client 1", event);
    return null; // Returning null does not send the event
  },
});
const hub1 = new Sentry.Hub(client1);

const client2 = new Sentry.BrowserClient({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___", // Can be a different DSN
  integrations: [...Sentry.defaultIntegrations, new HappyIntegration()],
  beforeSend(event) {
    console.log("client 2", event);
    return null; // Returning null does not send the event
  },
});
const hub2 = new Sentry.Hub(client2);

hub1.run(currentHub => {
  // The hub.run method makes sure that Sentry.getCurrentHub() returns this hub during the callback
  currentHub.captureMessage("a");
  currentHub.configureScope(function(scope) {
    scope.setTag("a", "b");
  });
});

hub2.run(currentHub => {
  // The hub.run method makes sure that Sentry.getCurrentHub() returns this hub during the callback
  currentHub.captureMessage("x");
  currentHub.configureScope(function(scope) {
    scope.setTag("c", "d");
  });
});
```

## Third Party Promise Libraries

When you include and configure Sentry, our JavaScript SDK automatically attaches global handlers to _capture_ uncaught exceptions and unhandled promise rejections. You can disable this default behavior by changing the `onunhandledrejection` option to `false` in your GlobalHandlers integration and manually hook into each event handler, then call `Sentry.captureException` or `Sentry.captureMessage` directly.

You may also need to manage your configuration if you are using a third-party library to implement promises. Also, remember that browsers often implement security measures that can block error reporting when serving script files from different origins.
