src/docs/product/cli/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Command Line Interface"
sidebar_order: 4000
redirect_from:
  - /learn/cli/
---

For certain actions, you can use the `sentry-cli` command line executable. It can connect to the Sentry API and manage some data for your projects. It’s primarily used for managing debug information files for iOS, Android as well as release and source maps management for other platforms.

- [Installation](/product/cli/installation/)
  - [Manual Download](/product/cli/installation/#manual-download)
  - [Automatic Installation](/product/cli/installation/#automatic-installation)
  - [Installation via NPM](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-npm)
  - [Installation via Homebrew](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-homebrew)
  - [Installation via Scoop](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-scoop)
  - [Docker Image](/product/cli/installation/#docker-image)
  - [Updating and Uninstalling](/product/cli/installation/#updating-and-uninstalling)
- [Configuration and Authentication](/product/cli/configuration/)
  - [Configuration File](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-file)
  - [Configuration Values](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values)
  - [Validating The Config](/product/cli/configuration/#validating-the-config)
  - [Working with Projects](/product/cli/configuration/#sentry-cli-working-with-projects)
- [Release Management](/product/cli/releases/)
  - [Creating Releases](/product/cli/releases/#creating-releases)
  - [Finalizing Releases](/product/cli/releases/#finalizing-releases)
  - [Commit Integration](/product/cli/releases/#sentry-cli-commit-integration)
  - [Managing Release Artifacts](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts)
  - [Creating Deploys](/product/cli/releases/#creating-deploys)
- [Debug Information Files](/product/cli/dif/)
  - [Checking Files](/product/cli/dif/#checking-files)
  - [Finding Files](/product/cli/dif/#finding-files)
  - [Creating Source Bundles](/product/cli/dif/#creating-source-bundles)
  - [Debug File Upload](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files)
  - [ProGuard Mapping Upload](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload)
- [Sending Events](/product/cli/send-event/)
  - [Basic Events](/product/cli/send-event/#basic-events)
  - [Events with Parameters](/product/cli/send-event/#events-with-parameters)
  - [Sending Breadcrumbs](/product/cli/send-event/#sending-breadcrumbs)
  - [Extra Data](/product/cli/send-event/#extra-data)
  - [Specifying Releases](/product/cli/send-event/#specifying-releases)
  - [Bash Hook](/product/cli/send-event/#bash-hook)

Commit message:

Add: front matter description to remaining product docs (#2586)
Updated last few Product docs with descriptions in the front matter.

src/docs/product/cli/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Command Line Interface"
sidebar_order: 4000
redirect_from:
  - /learn/cli/
description: "Learn how to use the `sentry-cli` command line executable."
---

For certain actions, you can use the `sentry-cli` command line executable. It can connect to the Sentry API and manage some data for your projects. It’s primarily used for managing debug information files for iOS, Android as well as release and source maps management for other platforms.

- [Installation](/product/cli/installation/)
  - [Manual Download](/product/cli/installation/#manual-download)
  - [Automatic Installation](/product/cli/installation/#automatic-installation)
  - [Installation via NPM](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-npm)
  - [Installation via Homebrew](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-homebrew)
  - [Installation via Scoop](/product/cli/installation/#installation-via-scoop)
  - [Docker Image](/product/cli/installation/#docker-image)
  - [Updating and Uninstalling](/product/cli/installation/#updating-and-uninstalling)
- [Configuration and Authentication](/product/cli/configuration/)
  - [Configuration File](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-file)
  - [Configuration Values](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values)
  - [Validating The Config](/product/cli/configuration/#validating-the-config)
  - [Working with Projects](/product/cli/configuration/#sentry-cli-working-with-projects)
- [Release Management](/product/cli/releases/)
  - [Creating Releases](/product/cli/releases/#creating-releases)
  - [Finalizing Releases](/product/cli/releases/#finalizing-releases)
  - [Commit Integration](/product/cli/releases/#sentry-cli-commit-integration)
  - [Managing Release Artifacts](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts)
  - [Creating Deploys](/product/cli/releases/#creating-deploys)
- [Debug Information Files](/product/cli/dif/)
  - [Checking Files](/product/cli/dif/#checking-files)
  - [Finding Files](/product/cli/dif/#finding-files)
  - [Creating Source Bundles](/product/cli/dif/#creating-source-bundles)
  - [Debug File Upload](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files)
  - [ProGuard Mapping Upload](/product/cli/dif/#proguard-mapping-upload)
- [Sending Events](/product/cli/send-event/)
  - [Basic Events](/product/cli/send-event/#basic-events)
  - [Events with Parameters](/product/cli/send-event/#events-with-parameters)
  - [Sending Breadcrumbs](/product/cli/send-event/#sending-breadcrumbs)
  - [Extra Data](/product/cli/send-event/#extra-data)
  - [Specifying Releases](/product/cli/send-event/#specifying-releases)
  - [Bash Hook](/product/cli/send-event/#bash-hook)
