src/platforms/react-native/migration.mdx, before:

---
title: Migration
description: "Learn more about migrating from 1.x to 2.x to enable release health tracking and native stack traces by default."
---

## From 1.x to 2.x

Sentry's most recent version of our React Native SDK enables release health tracking and native stack traces by default.

This version of the SDK uses the [envelope endpoint](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/envelopes/). If you are using an on-premise installation, the SDK requires Sentry version 20.6.0 and above. If you are using our SaaS product (`sentry.io`), there is no change and no action is required.

### iOS/MacOS

While the migration does not introduce breaking changes for iOS/MacOS on the React Native side, we recommend that you run `pod install` after the upgrade.

<Note>
<markdown>

If you are using our Cocoa SDK directly, follow that [migration guide for 5.x to 6.x](/platforms/apple/migration/#migrating-from-5x-to-6x).

</markdown>
</Note>

On iOS/MacOS, we now cache events in envelopes on the disk. As a result, you might lose a few cached events during the migration. Due to the effort involved, the migration from 5.x to 6.x does not move these few cached events into envelopes.

### Android

If you are on React Native <0.60, you will need to update this line in your `MainApplication.java`:


From (earlier version):

```java
import io.sentry.RNSentryPackage;
```

New:
```java
import io.sentry.react.RNSentryPackage;
```

Other than the one line change noted above, the migration should not cause breaking changes on the React Native side. 

<Note>
<markdown>

If you use our Android SDK directly, you should follow its [migration guide for 2.x to 3.x](/platforms/android/migration/#migrating-from-sentry-android-2x-to-sentry-android-3x).

</markdown>
</Note>


## From 0.x to 1.x

If you are upgrading from an earlier version of Sentry's React Native SDK, you should unlink the package to ensure the generated code is updated to the latest version:

```bash
react-native unlink react-native-sentry
```

After that remove `react-native-sentry` from your `package.json`:

```bash
npm uninstall react-native-sentry --save
# or
yarn remove react-native-sentry
```

From there you can follow the standard installation instructions for `@sentry/react-native`.

Commit message:

fix: It is on-premises, not on-premise (#2921)
Fixes #746

src/platforms/react-native/migration.mdx, after:

---
title: Migration
description: "Learn more about migrating from 1.x to 2.x to enable release health tracking and native stack traces by default."
---

## From 1.x to 2.x

Sentry's most recent version of our React Native SDK enables release health tracking and native stack traces by default.

This version of the SDK uses the [envelope endpoint](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/envelopes/). If you are using self-hosted Sentry, the SDK requires Sentry version 20.6.0 and above. If you are using our SaaS product ([sentry.io](https://sentry.io)), no changes or actions needed.

### iOS/MacOS

While the migration does not introduce breaking changes for iOS/MacOS on the React Native side, we recommend that you run `pod install` after the upgrade.

<Note>
<markdown>

If you are using our Cocoa SDK directly, follow that [migration guide for 5.x to 6.x](/platforms/apple/migration/#migrating-from-5x-to-6x).

</markdown>
</Note>

On iOS/MacOS, we now cache events in envelopes on the disk. As a result, you might lose a few cached events during the migration. Due to the effort involved, the migration from 5.x to 6.x does not move these few cached events into envelopes.

### Android

If you are on React Native <0.60, you will need to update this line in your `MainApplication.java`:

From (earlier version):

```java
import io.sentry.RNSentryPackage;
```

New:

```java
import io.sentry.react.RNSentryPackage;
```

Other than the one line change noted above, the migration should not cause breaking changes on the React Native side.

<Note>
<markdown>

If you use our Android SDK directly, you should follow its [migration guide for 2.x to 3.x](/platforms/android/migration/#migrating-from-sentry-android-2x-to-sentry-android-3x).

</markdown>
</Note>

## From 0.x to 1.x

If you are upgrading from an earlier version of Sentry's React Native SDK, you should unlink the package to ensure the generated code is updated to the latest version:

```bash
react-native unlink react-native-sentry
```

After that remove `react-native-sentry` from your `package.json`:

```bash
npm uninstall react-native-sentry --save
# or
yarn remove react-native-sentry
```

From there you can follow the standard installation instructions for `@sentry/react-native`.
