src/platforms/node/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Lambda
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/node/aws_lambda/
description: "Learn about Sentry's integration with AWS Lambda."
---

_(New in version 5.26.0)_

Create a deployment package on your local machine and install the required dependencies in the deployment package. For more information, see [Building an AWS Lambda deployment package for Node.js](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/lambda-deployment-package-nodejs/).

Add `@sentry/serverless` as a dependency:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save @sentry/serverless
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/serverless
```

You can use the AWS Lambda integration for the Node like this:

```javascript {tabTitle:async}
const Sentry = require("@sentry/serverless");

Sentry.AWSLambda.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});

exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(async (event, context) => {
  // Your handler code
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:sync}
const Sentry = require("@sentry/serverless");

Sentry.AWSLambda.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});

exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler((event, context, callback) => {
  // Your handler code
});
```

<!-- TODO-ADD-VERIFICATION-EXAMPLE -->

## Enable Timeout Warning

Sentry reports timeout warning when the function is within 500ms of it's execution time. You can turn off timeout warnings by setting `captureTimeoutWarning` to `false` in the handler options. To change timeout warning limit, assign a numeric value (in ms) to `timeoutWarningLimit`

```javascript {tabTitle:captureTimeoutWarning}
exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(yourHandler, {
  captureTimeoutWarning: false,
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:timeoutWarning}
exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(yourHandler, {
  timeoutWarningLimit: 50,
});
```

## Behavior

With the AWS Lambda integration enabled, the Node SDK will:

- Automatically report all events from your Lambda Functions.
- Allows you to <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/#filtering-transaction-events">modify the transaction sample rate</PlatformLink> using <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />.
- Issue reports automatically include:
  - A link to the cloudwatch logs
  - Function details
  - sys.argv for the function
  - AWS Request ID
  - Function execution time
  - Function version
- Sentry holds the thread for upto 2 seconds to report errors. You can change flush time limit by defining a `flushTimeout` value in the handler options

Commit message:

feat(integrations): AWS Lambda docs (#2937)

src/platforms/node/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Lambda
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/node/aws_lambda/
description: "Learn about Sentry's integration with AWS Lambda."
---

<Alert title="Note" level="info">

Looking for instructions on how to add Sentry without modifying your code? [Check out these docs instead](/product/integrations/aws-lambda/).

</Alert>

_(New in version 5.26.0)_

Create a deployment package on your local machine and install the required dependencies in the deployment package. For more information, see [Building an AWS Lambda deployment package for Node.js](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/lambda-deployment-package-nodejs/).

Add `@sentry/serverless` as a dependency:

```bash {tabTitle:npm}
npm install --save @sentry/serverless
```

```bash {tabTitle:Yarn}
yarn add @sentry/serverless
```

You can use the AWS Lambda integration for the Node like this:

```javascript {tabTitle:async}
const Sentry = require("@sentry/serverless");

Sentry.AWSLambda.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});

exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(async (event, context) => {
  // Your handler code
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:sync}
const Sentry = require("@sentry/serverless");

Sentry.AWSLambda.init({
  dsn: '___PUBLIC_DSN___',
  tracesSampleRate: 1.0,
});

exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler((event, context, callback) => {
  // Your handler code
});
```

<!-- TODO-ADD-VERIFICATION-EXAMPLE -->

## Enable Timeout Warning

Sentry reports timeout warning when the function is within 500ms of it's execution time. You can turn off timeout warnings by setting `captureTimeoutWarning` to `false` in the handler options. To change timeout warning limit, assign a numeric value (in ms) to `timeoutWarningLimit`

```javascript {tabTitle:captureTimeoutWarning}
exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(yourHandler, {
  captureTimeoutWarning: false,
});
```

```javascript {tabTitle:timeoutWarning}
exports.handler = Sentry.AWSLambda.wrapHandler(yourHandler, {
  timeoutWarningLimit: 50,
});
```

## Behavior

With the AWS Lambda integration enabled, the Node SDK will:

- Automatically report all events from your Lambda Functions.
- Allows you to <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/#filtering-transaction-events">modify the transaction sample rate</PlatformLink> using <PlatformIdentifier name="traces-sample-rate" />.
- Issue reports automatically include:
  - A link to the cloudwatch logs
  - Function details
  - sys.argv for the function
  - AWS Request ID
  - Function execution time
  - Function version
- Sentry holds the thread for upto 2 seconds to report errors. You can change flush time limit by defining a `flushTimeout` value in the handler options
