src/platforms/common/enriching-events/identify-user.mdx, before:

---
title: Identify Users
sidebar_order: 2
notSupported:
  - native.breakpad
  - native.crashpad
  - native.minidumps
  - native.wasm
  - native.ue4
description: "Learn how to configure the SDK to capture the user and gain critical pieces of information that construct a unique identity in Sentry."
---

Users consist of a few critical pieces of information that construct a unique identity in Sentry. Each of these is optional, but one **must** be present for the Sentry SDK to capture the user:

`id`

: Your internal identifier for the user.

`username`

: The username. Typically used as a better label than the internal id.

`email`

: An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

`ip_address`

: The user's IP address. If the user is unauthenticated, Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for the user. Sentry will attempt to pull this from the HTTP request data, if available.

Additionally, you can provide arbitrary key/value pairs beyond the reserved names, and the Sentry SDK will store those with the user.

<PlatformContent includePath="set-user">

To identify the user:

</PlatformContent>

<PlatformContent includePath="unset-user">

You can also clear the currently set user:

</PlatformContent>

Commit message:

fix(native): Document ip_address {{auto}} (#2822)
Documents the special `{{auto}}` value for `user.ip_address` for all SDKs.
Client-side SDKs set this by default, whereas in server-side SDKs this must be
set manually.

Since the Native SDK is used in both contexts, we document `{{auto}}` explicitly
in the code example.

src/platforms/common/enriching-events/identify-user.mdx, after:

---
title: Identify Users
sidebar_order: 2
notSupported:
  - native.breakpad
  - native.crashpad
  - native.minidumps
  - native.wasm
  - native.ue4
description: "Learn how to configure the SDK to capture the user and gain critical pieces of information that construct a unique identity in Sentry."
---

Users consist of a few critical pieces of information that construct a unique identity in Sentry. Each of these is optional, but one **must** be present for the Sentry SDK to capture the user:

`id`

: Your internal identifier for the user.

`username`

: The username. Typically used as a better label than the internal id.

`email`

: An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

`ip_address`

: The user's IP address. If the user is unauthenticated, Sentry uses the IP address as a unique identifier for the user. Sentry will attempt to pull this from the HTTP request data, if available. Set to `"{{auto}}"` to let Sentry infer the IP address from the connection.

Additionally, you can provide arbitrary key/value pairs beyond the reserved names, and the Sentry SDK will store those with the user.

<PlatformContent includePath="set-user">

To identify the user:

</PlatformContent>

<PlatformContent includePath="unset-user">

You can also clear the currently set user:

</PlatformContent>
