src/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx, before:

---
title: AWS Lambda
redirect_from:
  - /clients/python/integrations/lambda/
  - /platforms/python/aws_lambda/
---

_(New in version 0.3.5)_

Create a deployment package on your local machine and install the required dependencies in the deployment package.
For more information, see [AWS Lambda deployment package in Python](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-package.html).

Install our Python SDK using `pip`:

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade sentry-sdk
```

You can use the AWS Lambda integration for the Python SDK like this:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.aws_lambda import AwsLambdaIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[AwsLambdaIntegration()]
)

def my_function(event, context):
    # ...
```

Check out Sentry's [AWS sample apps](https://github.com/getsentry/examples/tree/master/aws-lambda/python) for detailed examples.

## Timeout Warning

_(New in version 0.16.3)_

The timeout warning reports an issue when the function execution time is near
the [configured timeout](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-console.html).

To enable the warning, update the SDK initialization to set `timeout_warning` to
`true`:

```python
sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[AwsLambdaIntegration(timeout_warning=True)]
)
```

The timeout warning is sent only if the timeout in the Lambda Function configuration is set to a value greater than one second.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

If you are using another web framework inside of AWS Lambda, the framework might catch those exceptions before we get to see them. Make sure to enable the framework specific integration as well, if one exists. See [_Integrations_](/platforms/python/#integrations) for more information.

</markdown></Alert>

<!-- TODO-ADD-VERIFICATION-EXAMPLE -->

## Behavior

With the AWS Lambda integration enabled, the Python SDK will:

- Automatically report all exceptions from your Lambda Functions
- Issues reports automatically include:

  - A link to CloudWatch Logs
  - Function details
  - `sys.argv` for the function
  - AWS Request ID
  - Function execution time
  - Function version
  - You can add more context as described [here](/platforms/python/#setting-context)

- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.

Commit message:

redoing transaction updates for serverless in a new branch (#2416)
* redoing transaction updates for serverless in a new branch

* Update src/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/platforms/python/guides/gcp-functions/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

* fixing white spaces

* fix: Correct handling of notoc for normal doc pages (#2413)

Co-authored-by: AJ <aj@ajs-macbook-pro.lan>
Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: David Cramer <dcramer@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/python/guides/aws-lambda/index.mdx, after:

---
title: AWS Lambda
redirect_from:
  - /clients/python/integrations/lambda/
  - /platforms/python/aws_lambda/
---

_(New in version 0.3.5)_

Create a deployment package on your local machine and install the required dependencies in the deployment package.
For more information, see [AWS Lambda deployment package in Python](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/python-package.html).

Install our Python SDK using `pip`:

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade sentry-sdk
```

You can use the AWS Lambda integration for the Python SDK like this:

```python
import sentry_sdk
from sentry_sdk.integrations.aws_lambda import AwsLambdaIntegration

sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[AwsLambdaIntegration()],
    traces_sample_rate=1.0, # adjust the sample rate in production as needed
)

def my_function(event, context):
    # ...
```

Check out Sentry's [AWS sample apps](https://github.com/getsentry/examples/tree/master/aws-lambda/python) for detailed examples.

<Alert level="info" title="Note"><markdown>

If you are using another web framework inside of AWS Lambda, the framework might catch those exceptions before we get to see them. Make sure to enable the framework specific integration as well, if one exists. See [_Integrations_](/platforms/python/#integrations) for more information.

</markdown></Alert>

## Timeout Warning

_(New in version 0.16.3)_

The timeout warning reports an issue when the function execution time is near
the [configured timeout](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-console.html).

To enable the warning, update the SDK initialization to set `timeout_warning` to
`true`:

```python
sentry_sdk.init(
    dsn="___PUBLIC_DSN___",
    integrations=[AwsLambdaIntegration(timeout_warning=True)]
)
```

The timeout warning is sent only if the timeout in the Lambda Function configuration is set to a value greater than one second.

## Behavior

With the AWS Lambda integration enabled, the Python SDK will:

- Automatically report all events from your Lambda Functions.
- You can <PlatformLink to="/configuration/filtering/">modify the transaction sample rate</PlatformLink> using `traces_sample_rate`.
- Event reports automatically include:

  - A link to CloudWatch Logs
  - Function details
  - `sys.argv` for the function
  - AWS Request ID
  - Function execution time
  - Function version
  - You can add more context as described [here](/platforms/python/#setting-context)

- Request data is attached to all events: **HTTP method, URL, headers, form data, JSON payloads**. Sentry excludes raw bodies and multipart file uploads. Sentry also excludes personally identifiable information (such as user ids, usernames, cookies, authorization headers, IP addresses) unless you set `send_default_pii` to `True`.

- Each request has a separate scope. Changes to the scope within a view, for example setting a tag, will only apply to events sent as part of the request being handled.
