src/docs/contributing/platforms/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Platform Portals
noindex: true
sidebar_order: 3
---

Platform content lives in `src/platforms` and follows some specific rules to generate content. The content is rendered using the same features as all other [pages](../), but has some additional functionality exposed to clone content and encapsulate platforms as portals.

Directory structure has meaning within the platforms directory, and looks something akin to:

```
[platformName]/
  child.mdx
  childTwo/
    index.mdx
  common/
    aSharedPage.mdx
  guides/
    [guideName]/
      uniqueChild.mdx
      childTwo/
        index.mdx
```

Platforms will generate a list of "guides", and inherit all content within common. Given the above example, we end up with a variety of semi-duplicated URLs:

```
/platforms/platformName/
/platforms/platformName/config.yml
/platforms/platformName/child/
/platforms/platformName/childTwo/
/platforms/platformName/aSharedPage/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/config.yml
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/child/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/uniqueChild/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/childTwo/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/aSharedPage/
```

This is generated by inheriting all content with the `common/` directory, then adding (or overriding with) content from the siblings (or children as we'd call them). In the above example, you'll see `aSharedPage` is loaded at two different URLs, and `childTwo` is overwritten by `guideName`.

The sidebar on platform pages (handled by `<PlatformSidebar>`) will generate with the Guide, or the Base Platform being the primary section, in addition to a list of other guides available in a section below it. This means that all content is focused on the current guide (usually a framework) they're in, ensuring ease of navigation.

## Configuration

Configuration is read (in order) from `[namespace]/index.mdx` and `[namespace]/config.yml`. This means that a platform's index can be fully rendered via a common page.

Valid configuration attributes are:

`title`

: The display name for a platform.

`supportLevel`

: The level of support. `production` (default) or `community`

`caseStyle`

: The casing style for code samples. `canonical` (default), `camelCase`, `snake_case`, or `PascalCase`

`categories`

: A list of categories for future support. Known values are `browser`, `mobile`, `desktop`, and `server`.

`fallbackPlatform`

: The key to use for defaults. Can use full key syntax of `platformName` or `platformName.guideName`.

`sdk`

: The name of the SDK, if available. Used to embed SDK information on pages.

`aliases`

: A list of aliases for this platform. For example, "Cocoa" might apply to Apple, or "C#" might apply to .NET.

## Shared Content

There are two forms of shared (duplicated) content available:

- platform-specific content
- globally shared content

Both of these are contained using the `common/` folder paradigm. The global content is within `src/platforms/common/` and for platform specific content it should be created within `src/platforms/[platformName]/common/`.

All of this content will be automatically duplicated within every guide, as well as every platform (when it's at the global level). This leverages components like `PlatformContent` which can automatically substitute content out.

### Page Visibility

Sometimes a page may not make sense within the context of a given platform. To control this, you can use the `supported` and `notSupported` frontmatter on all common pages in platforms.

<Note><markdown>

Page visiblity works similar to the supported/notSupported attributes in other platform components (such as `PlatformSection`).

</markdown></Note>

For example, to make attachments only available on native platforms, you'd open up the document file (e.g. `attachments/index.mdx`) and add the following to frontmatter:

```markdown
---
supported:
  - native
---
```

If you wanted to make hide the content for a platform by default, but enable it for a guide, you can do that as well:

```markdown
---
supported:
  - native.ue4
notSupported:
  - native
---
```

## Platform-Specific Components

There are a number of components that aid the development of platform specific pages, as well as behave differently when a platform is active. For more information, see [components](../pages/components/).

## Delineation

We separate platform portals by the main way or mechanism that developers interact with the platform and with Sentry.

In general, use this decision tree:

- Is it a new programming language? -> new platform
- Does it require a separate SDK or way of sending data to Sentry? -> new platform
- Does it count as a "platform" -> new platform
- Otherwise -> add it as a Guide to an existing platform

### Example

JavaScript is a top-level SDK because the frameworks that it supports share much of the same content.

On the other hand, Android and Java have very little overlap. As a result, they are both top level platforms.

Commit message:

fix(dev): Add note about `supported`/`notSupported` for subtrees (#2571)

src/docs/contributing/platforms/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Platform Portals
noindex: true
sidebar_order: 3
---

Platform content lives in `src/platforms` and follows some specific rules to generate content. The content is rendered using the same features as all other [pages](../), but has some additional functionality exposed to clone content and encapsulate platforms as portals.

Directory structure has meaning within the platforms directory, and looks something akin to:

```
[platformName]/
  child.mdx
  childTwo/
    index.mdx
  common/
    aSharedPage.mdx
  guides/
    [guideName]/
      uniqueChild.mdx
      childTwo/
        index.mdx
```

Platforms will generate a list of "guides", and inherit all content within common. Given the above example, we end up with a variety of semi-duplicated URLs:

```
/platforms/platformName/
/platforms/platformName/config.yml
/platforms/platformName/child/
/platforms/platformName/childTwo/
/platforms/platformName/aSharedPage/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/config.yml
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/child/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/uniqueChild/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/childTwo/
/platforms/platformName/guides/guideName/aSharedPage/
```

This is generated by inheriting all content with the `common/` directory, then adding (or overriding with) content from the siblings (or children as we'd call them). In the above example, you'll see `aSharedPage` is loaded at two different URLs, and `childTwo` is overwritten by `guideName`.

The sidebar on platform pages (handled by `<PlatformSidebar>`) will generate with the Guide, or the Base Platform being the primary section, in addition to a list of other guides available in a section below it. This means that all content is focused on the current guide (usually a framework) they're in, ensuring ease of navigation.

## Configuration

Configuration is read (in order) from `[namespace]/index.mdx` and `[namespace]/config.yml`. This means that a platform's index can be fully rendered via a common page.

Valid configuration attributes are:

`title`

: The display name for a platform.

`supportLevel`

: The level of support. `production` (default) or `community`

`caseStyle`

: The casing style for code samples. `canonical` (default), `camelCase`, `snake_case`, or `PascalCase`

`categories`

: A list of categories for future support. Known values are `browser`, `mobile`, `desktop`, and `server`.

`fallbackPlatform`

: The key to use for defaults. Can use full key syntax of `platformName` or `platformName.guideName`.

`sdk`

: The name of the SDK, if available. Used to embed SDK information on pages.

`aliases`

: A list of aliases for this platform. For example, "Cocoa" might apply to Apple, or "C#" might apply to .NET.

## Shared Content

There are two forms of shared (duplicated) content available:

- platform-specific content
- globally shared content

Both of these are contained using the `common/` folder paradigm. The global content is within `src/platforms/common/` and for platform specific content it should be created within `src/platforms/[platformName]/common/`.

All of this content will be automatically duplicated within every guide, as well as every platform (when it's at the global level). This leverages components like `PlatformContent` which can automatically substitute content out.

### Page Visibility

Sometimes a page may not make sense within the context of a given platform. To control this, you can use the `supported` and `notSupported` frontmatter on all common pages in platforms.

<Note><markdown>

Page visiblity works similar to the supported/notSupported attributes in other platform components (such as `PlatformSection`).

</markdown></Note>

For example, to make attachments only available on native platforms, you'd open up the document file (e.g. `attachments/index.mdx`) and add the following to frontmatter:

```markdown
---
supported:
  - native
---
```

If you wanted to make hide the content for a platform by default, but enable it for a guide, you can do that as well:

```markdown
---
supported:
  - native.ue4
notSupported:
  - native
---
```

If the page you're conditionally hiding has subpages, you'll need to add the `supported`/`notSupported` annotations to the subpages as well.

## Platform-Specific Components

There are a number of components that aid the development of platform specific pages, as well as behave differently when a platform is active. For more information, see [components](../pages/components/).

## Delineation

We separate platform portals by the main way or mechanism that developers interact with the platform and with Sentry.

In general, use this decision tree:

- Is it a new programming language? -> new platform
- Does it require a separate SDK or way of sending data to Sentry? -> new platform
- Does it count as a "platform" -> new platform
- Otherwise -> add it as a Guide to an existing platform

### Example

JavaScript is a top-level SDK because the frameworks that it supports share much of the same content.

On the other hand, Android and Java have very little overlap. As a result, they are both top level platforms.
