src/api/auth.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_order: 1
---

## Auth Tokens

Authentication tokens are passed using an auth header, and are used to authenticate as a user account with the API.

```bash
curl -H 'Authorization: Bearer {TOKEN}' https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

You can [find or create authentication tokens within Sentry](https://sentry.io/api/).

## DSN Authentication

Some API endpoints may allow DSN-based authentication. This is generally very limited and an endpoint will describe if its supported. This works similar to Bearer token authentication, but uses your DSN (Client Key).

```bash
curl -H 'Authorization: DSN {DSN}' https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

## API Keys

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

API keys are a legacy means of authenticating. They will still be supported but are disabled for new accounts. You should use **authentication tokens** wherever possible.

</Alert>

API keys are passed using HTTP Basic auth where the username is your api key, and the password is an empty value.

As an example, to get information about the project which your key is bound to, you might make a request like so:

```bash
curl -u {API_KEY}: https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

<Note>

You **must** pass a value for the password, which is the reason the `:` is present in our example.

</Note>

Commit message:

feat(auth): Add information about self-hosted auth tokens (#2731)
some additional information for those trying to generate/find on-prem auth tokens.

src/api/auth.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_order: 1
---

## Auth Tokens

Authentication tokens are passed using an auth header, and are used to authenticate as a user account with the API.

```bash
curl -H 'Authorization: Bearer {TOKEN}' https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

You can [find or create authentication tokens within Sentry](https://sentry.io/api/).

For self-hosted, you can find or create authentication tokens by visiting `{instance_url_prefix}/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/`

## DSN Authentication

Some API endpoints may allow DSN-based authentication. This is generally very limited and an endpoint will describe if its supported. This works similar to Bearer token authentication, but uses your DSN (Client Key).

```bash
curl -H 'Authorization: DSN {DSN}' https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

## API Keys

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

API keys are a legacy means of authenticating. They will still be supported but are disabled for new accounts. You should use **authentication tokens** wherever possible.

</Alert>

API keys are passed using HTTP Basic auth where the username is your api key, and the password is an empty value.

As an example, to get information about the project which your key is bound to, you might make a request like so:

```bash
curl -u {API_KEY}: https://sentry.io/api/0/projects/
```

<Note>

You **must** pass a value for the password, which is the reason the `:` is present in our example.

</Note>
