src/api/permissions.mdx, before:

---
title: Permissions & Scopes
sidebar_order: 3
---

If you're building on top of Sentry's API (i.e using [Auth Tokens](/api/auth/)), you'll need certain scopes to access
different API endpoints.

If you're looking for information on membership roles please visit the
[membership](/product/accounts/membership/) documentation.

### Organizations

|              |             |
| :----------: | :---------: |
|   **GET**    | `org:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `org:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `org:admin` |

### Projects

|              |                 |
| :----------: | :-------------: |
|   **GET**    | `project:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `project:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `project:admin` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

The `project:releases` scope will give you access to both **project**
and **organization** release endpoints. The available endpoints are listed in the
[Releases](/api/releases/) section of the API Documentation.

</Alert>

### Teams

|              |              |
| :----------: | :----------: |
|   **GET**    | `team:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `team:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `team:admin` |

### Members

|              |                |
| :----------: | :------------: |
|   **GET**    | `member:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `member:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `member:admin` |

### Issues & Events

|            |               |
| :--------: | :-----------: |
|  **GET**   | `event:read`  |
|  **PUT**   | `event:write` |
| **DELETE** | `event:admin` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

**PUT/DELETE** methods only apply to updating/deleting issues.
Events in sentry are immutable and can only be deleted by deleting the whole issue.

</Alert>

### Releases

|                         |                    |
| :---------------------: | :----------------: |
| **GET/PUT/POST/DELETE** | `project:releases` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Be aware that if you're using `sentry-cli` to [manage your releases](/product/cli/releases/), you'll need a token which also has `org:read` scope.

</Alert>

Commit message:

feat(auth permission): Add information about how to set scopes (#2595)
* feat(auth permission): Add information about how to set scopes

src/api/permissions.mdx, after:

---
title: Permissions & Scopes
sidebar_order: 3
---

If you're building on top of Sentry's API (i.e using [Auth Tokens](/api/auth/)), you'll need certain scopes to access
different API endpoints.

To set the scopes for an [integration token](/product/integrations/integration-platform/#permissions), select the scopes from the dropdown. These can be edited later.

To set the scopes for an auth token, check the necessary boxes when [creating an auth token](https://sentry.io/api/).

![](auth-token.png)

If you're looking for information on membership roles please visit the
[membership](/product/accounts/membership/) documentation.

### Organizations

|              |             |
| :----------: | :---------: |
|   **GET**    | `org:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `org:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `org:admin` |

### Projects

|              |                 |
| :----------: | :-------------: |
|   **GET**    | `project:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `project:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `project:admin` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

The `project:releases` scope will give you access to both **project**
and **organization** release endpoints. The available endpoints are listed in the
[Releases](/api/releases/) section of the API Documentation.

</Alert>

### Teams

|              |              |
| :----------: | :----------: |
|   **GET**    | `team:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `team:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `team:admin` |

### Members

|              |                |
| :----------: | :------------: |
|   **GET**    | `member:read`  |
| **PUT/POST** | `member:write` |
|  **DELETE**  | `member:admin` |

### Issues & Events

|            |               |
| :--------: | :-----------: |
|  **GET**   | `event:read`  |
|  **PUT**   | `event:write` |
| **DELETE** | `event:admin` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

**PUT/DELETE** methods only apply to updating/deleting issues.
Events in Sentry are immutable and can only be deleted by deleting the whole issue.

</Alert>

### Releases

|                         |                    |
| :---------------------: | :----------------: |
| **GET/PUT/POST/DELETE** | `project:releases` |

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Be aware that if you're using `sentry-cli` to [manage your releases](/product/cli/releases/), you'll need a token which also has `org:read` scope.

</Alert>
