src/platforms/flutter/usage/advanced-usage.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Usage
sidebar_order: 2
---

## Requirements

For the usage of the Flutter SDK, the minimal required Dart SDK version is `2.8.0` and Flutter SDK version is `1.17.0`

## Automatic Breadcrumbs

The Flutter SDK already captures breadcrumbs automatically via the Native SDKs.

- [Automatic Breadcrumbs for Android](/platforms/android/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/#automatic-breadcrumbs)
- [Automatic Breadcrumbs for iOS](/platforms/apple/usage/#sentryautobreadcrumbtrackingintegration)

If you wish to add additional Navigation breadcrumbs for Flutter Apps, Add the `SentryNavigationObserver` to your `MaterialApp`, `WidgetsApp` or `CupertinoApp`

```dart
import 'package:flutter/widgets.dart';
import 'package:sentry_flutter/sentry_flutter.dart';

MaterialApp(
  navigatorObservers: [
    SentryNavigatorObserver(),
  ],
  // other parameters
)
```

## Uploading Debug Symbols (Android and iOS)

- [iOS dSYM files](/platforms/apple/dsym/)
- [Android NDK](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files), You've to do it manually, Do not use the `uploadNativeSymbols` flag from the [Sentry Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/proguard/), it's not supported yet.
- [Android Proguard/R8 mapping file](/platforms/android/proguard/)
- [Source maps for Flutter Web](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts)

## Known Limitations

- Flutter `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags aren't yet supported on iOS; they are supported only on Android. If this feature is enabled, Dart stack traces are not human readable, this is a tooling limitation, See: [43612](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/43612) and [43274](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/43274).
- If you enable the `split-debug-info` feature, you must upload the Debug Symbols manually.
- Also, Issue's titles might be obfuscated as we rely on the `runtimeType`, but they may not be human-readable, See: [Obfuscate Caveat](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate#caveat)

## Tips for Catching Errors

- Use a `try/catch` block
- Use a `catchError` block for `Futures`
- The SDK already runs your init `callback` on an error handler, e.g. using `runZonedGuarded`, are captured automatically
- Flutter-specific errors (such as layout failures), e.g. using `FlutterError.onError`, are captured automatically
- `Isolate` errors on the `current` Isolate which is the equivalent of a main/UI thread, e.g. using `Isolate.current.addErrorListener`, are captured automatically (Only for non-Web Apps).
- For your own `Isolates`, add an `ErrorListener` and call `Sentry.captureException`

## Caveat

Always prefer the `SentryFlutter.init(...)` instead of `Sentry.init(...)` as it adds the Flutter integrations on top of the Dart SDK.

## Advanced Usage (Android and iOS)

- [iOS Advanced Usage](/platforms/apple/usage/)
- [Android Advanced Usage](/platforms/android/usage/advanced-usage/)

## Dart environment variables

- You can configure the `SENTRY_DSN`, `SENTRY_RELEASE`, `SENTRY_DIST` and `SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT` via the Dart environment variables passing the `--dart-define` flag to the compiler.

Commit message:

Add HTTP breadcrumbs for Dart and Flutter (#2751)

src/platforms/flutter/usage/advanced-usage.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Usage
sidebar_order: 2
---

## Requirements

For the usage of the Flutter SDK, the minimal required Dart SDK version is `2.8.0` and Flutter SDK version is `1.17.0`

## Automatic Breadcrumbs

The Flutter SDK already captures breadcrumbs automatically via the Native SDKs.

- [Automatic Breadcrumbs for Android](/platforms/android/enriching-events/breadcrumbs/#automatic-breadcrumbs)
- [Automatic Breadcrumbs for iOS](/platforms/apple/usage/#sentryautobreadcrumbtrackingintegration)

If you wish to add additional Navigation breadcrumbs for Flutter Apps, Add the `SentryNavigationObserver` to your `MaterialApp`, `WidgetsApp` or `CupertinoApp`

```dart
import 'package:flutter/widgets.dart';
import 'package:sentry_flutter/sentry_flutter.dart';

MaterialApp(
  navigatorObservers: [
    SentryNavigatorObserver(),
  ],
  // other parameters
)
```

To track automatic Breadcrumbs for `HTTP` requests, Check out the [SentryHttpClient](/platforms/dart/usage/advanced-usage/#automatic-breadcrumbs) Wrapper for the [http](https://pub.dev/packages/http) library.

## Uploading Debug Symbols (Android and iOS)

- [iOS dSYM files](/platforms/apple/dsym/)
- [Android NDK](/product/cli/dif/#uploading-files), You've to do it manually, Do not use the `uploadNativeSymbols` flag from the [Sentry Gradle Plugin](/platforms/android/proguard/), it's not supported yet.
- [Android Proguard/R8 mapping file](/platforms/android/proguard/)
- [Source maps for Flutter Web](/product/cli/releases/#managing-release-artifacts)

## Known Limitations

- Flutter `split-debug-info` and `obfuscate` flags aren't yet supported on iOS; they are supported only on Android. If this feature is enabled, Dart stack traces are not human readable, this is a tooling limitation, See: [43612](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/43612) and [43274](https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/43274).
- If you enable the `split-debug-info` feature, you must upload the Debug Symbols manually.
- Also, Issue's titles might be obfuscated as we rely on the `runtimeType`, but they may not be human-readable, See: [Obfuscate Caveat](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/obfuscate#caveat)

## Tips for Catching Errors

- Use a `try/catch` block
- Use a `catchError` block for `Futures`
- The SDK already runs your init `callback` on an error handler, e.g. using `runZonedGuarded`, are captured automatically
- Flutter-specific errors (such as layout failures), e.g. using `FlutterError.onError`, are captured automatically
- `Isolate` errors on the `current` Isolate which is the equivalent of a main/UI thread, e.g. using `Isolate.current.addErrorListener`, are captured automatically (Only for non-Web Apps).
- For your own `Isolates`, add an `ErrorListener` and call `Sentry.captureException`

## Caveat

Always prefer the `SentryFlutter.init(...)` instead of `Sentry.init(...)` as it adds the Flutter integrations on top of the Dart SDK.

## Advanced Usage (Android and iOS)

- [iOS Advanced Usage](/platforms/apple/usage/)
- [Android Advanced Usage](/platforms/android/usage/advanced-usage/)

## Dart environment variables

- You can configure the `SENTRY_DSN`, `SENTRY_RELEASE`, `SENTRY_DIST` and `SENTRY_ENVIRONMENT` via the Dart environment variables passing the `--dart-define` flag to the compiler.
