src/platforms/python/common/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
sidebar_order: 950
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/contextvars/
---

We expect most users of the Python SDK not to run into any of the problems
documented here.

Use the information in this page to help answer these questions:

- "What do I do if scope data is leaking between requests?"
- "What do I do if my transaction has nested spans when they should be parallel?"

The short answer to those: check if your `contextvars` work and you clone the
hub where needed.

## Addressing Concurrency Issues

Python supports several distinct solutions to concurrency, including threads and
coroutines.

The Python SDK does its best to figure out how contextual data such as tags set
with `sentry_sdk.set_tags` is supposed to flow along your control flow. In most
cases it works perfectly, but in a few situations some special care must be
taken. This is specially true when working with a code base doing concurrency
outside of the provided framework integrations.

The general recommendation is to have one hub per "concurrency unit"
(thread/coroutine/etc). The SDK ensures every thread has an independent hub. If
you do concurrency with `asyncio` coroutines, clone the current hub for use
within a block that runs concurrent code:

```python
with Hub(Hub.current):
    # in this block Hub.current refers to a new clone
    # of the original hub, with the same client and
    # the same initial scope data.
```

Issues with `asyncio` have then an easy workaround: every `asyncio` coroutine
that really does run concurrently with other coroutines needs to be made into a
task, then the hub needs to be cloned and reassigned.

See the [Threading](../integrations/default-integrations/#threading) section
for a more complete example that involves cloning the current hub.

## Context Variables vs Thread Locals

The Python SDK uses [thread
locals](https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html#thread-local-data) to
keep contextual data where it belongs. There are a few situations where this
approach fails.

Read along if you cannot figure out why contextual data is leaking across HTTP
requests, or data is missing or popping up at the wrong place and time.

### Python 2: Thread Locals and gevent

If the SDK is installed on Python 2, there is not much else to use than the
aforementioned thread locals, so the SDK will use just that.

Code that uses async libraries such as **`twisted` is not supported** in the
sense that you will experience context data leaking across tasks/any logical
boundaries, at least out of the box.

Code that uses more "magical" async libraries such as **`gevent` or `eventlet`
will work just fine** provided those libraries are configured to monkeypatch
the stdlib. If you are only using those libraries in the context of running
`gunicorn` that is the case, for example.

### Python 3: Context Variables or Thread Locals

Python 3 introduced `asyncio`, which, just like Twisted, had the problem of not
having any concept of attaching contextual data to your control flow. That
means in Python 3.6 and lower, the SDK is not able to prevent leaks of
contextual data.

Python 3.7 rectified this problem with the `contextvars` stdlib module which is
basically thread locals that also work in asyncio-based code. The SDK will
attempt to use that module instead of thread locals if available.

**For Python 3.6 and older, install `aiocontextvars` from PyPI** which is a
fully-functional backport of `contextvars`. The SDK will check for this package
and use it instead of thread locals.

## Context Variables vs gevent/eventlet

If you are using `gevent` (older than 20.5) or `eventlet` in your application and
have configured it to monkeypatch the stdlib, the SDK will abstain from using
`contextvars` even if it is available.

The reason for that is that both of those libraries will monkeypatch the
`threading` module only, and not the `contextvars` module.

The real-world usecase where this actually comes up is if you're using Django
3.0 within a `gunicorn+gevent` worker on Python 3.7. In such a scenario the
monkeypatched `threading` module will honor the control flow of a gunicorn
worker while the unpatched `contextvars` will not.

It gets more complicated if you're using Django Channels in the same app, but a
separate server process, as this is a legitimate usage of `asyncio` for which
`contextvars` behaves more correctly. Make sure that your channels websocket
server does not import or use gevent at all (and much less call
`gevent.monkey.patch_all`), and you should be good.

Even then there are still edge cases where this behavior is flat-out broken,
such as mixing asyncio code with gevent/eventlet-based code. In that case there
is no right, _static_ answer as to which context library to use. Even then
gevent's aggressive monkeypatching is likely to interfere in a way that cannot
be fixed from within the SDK.

This [issue has been fixed with gevent
20.5](https://github.com/gevent/gevent/issues/1407) but continues to be one for
eventlet.

Commit message:

Edits to Python PlatformContent and adoption of common GS by Django (#2435)
* mild edits to Python PlatformContent and adoption of common GS for Django

* Update src/platforms/python/common/troubleshooting.mdx

Co-authored-by: Markus Unterwaditzer <markus-honeypot@unterwaditzer.net>

* changes to Python primer

* update content

* fix platform section

* Final Django edits

* fix bad link

Co-authored-by: Markus Unterwaditzer <markus-honeypot@unterwaditzer.net>

src/platforms/python/common/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: "While we don't expect most users of our SDK to run into these issues, we document edge cases here."
sidebar_order: 950
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/python/contextvars/
---

We expect most users of the Python SDK not to run into any of the problems
documented here.

Use the information in this page to help answer these questions:

- "What do I do if scope data is leaking between requests?"
- "What do I do if my transaction has nested spans when they should be parallel?"

The short answer to those: check if your `contextvars` work and you clone the
hub where needed.

## Addressing Concurrency Issues

Python supports several distinct solutions to concurrency, including threads and
coroutines.

The Python SDK does its best to figure out how contextual data such as tags set
with `sentry_sdk.set_tags` is supposed to flow along your control flow. In most
cases it works perfectly, but in a few situations some special care must be
taken. This is specially true when working with a code base doing concurrency
outside of the provided framework integrations.

The general recommendation is to have one hub per "concurrency unit"
(thread/coroutine/etc). The SDK ensures every thread has an independent hub. If
you do concurrency with `asyncio` coroutines, clone the current hub for use
within a block that runs concurrent code:

```python
with Hub(Hub.current):
    # in this block Hub.current refers to a new clone
    # of the original hub, with the same client and
    # the same initial scope data.
```

Issues with `asyncio` have then an easy workaround: every `asyncio` coroutine
that really does run concurrently with other coroutines needs to be made into a
task, then the hub needs to be cloned and reassigned.

See the [Threading](../integrations/default-integrations/#threading) section
for a more complete example that involves cloning the current hub.

## Context Variables vs Thread Locals

The Python SDK uses [thread
locals](https://docs.python.org/3/library/threading.html#thread-local-data) to
keep contextual data where it belongs. There are a few situations where this
approach fails.

Read along if you cannot figure out why contextual data is leaking across HTTP
requests, or data is missing or popping up at the wrong place and time.

### Python 2: Thread Locals and gevent

If the SDK is installed on Python 2, there is not much else to use than the
aforementioned thread locals, so the SDK will use just that.

Code that uses async libraries such as **`twisted` is not supported** in the
sense that you will experience context data leaking across tasks/any logical
boundaries, at least out of the box.

Code that uses more "magical" async libraries such as **`gevent` or `eventlet`
will work just fine** provided those libraries are configured to monkeypatch
the stdlib. If you are only using those libraries in the context of running
`gunicorn` that is the case, for example.

### Python 3: Context Variables or Thread Locals

Python 3 introduced `asyncio`, which, just like Twisted, had the problem of not
having any concept of attaching contextual data to your control flow. That
means in Python 3.6 and lower, the SDK is not able to prevent leaks of
contextual data.

Python 3.7 rectified this problem with the `contextvars` stdlib module which is
basically thread locals that also work in asyncio-based code. The SDK will
attempt to use that module instead of thread locals if available.

**For Python 3.6 and older, install `aiocontextvars` from PyPI** which is a
fully-functional backport of `contextvars`. The SDK will check for this package
and use it instead of thread locals.

## Context Variables vs gevent/eventlet

If you are using `gevent` (older than 20.5) or `eventlet` in your application and
have configured it to monkeypatch the stdlib, the SDK will abstain from using
`contextvars` even if it is available.

The reason for that is that both of those libraries will monkeypatch the
`threading` module only, and not the `contextvars` module.

The real-world usecase where this actually comes up is if you're using Django
3.0 within a `gunicorn+gevent` worker on Python 3.7. In such a scenario the
monkeypatched `threading` module will honor the control flow of a gunicorn
worker while the unpatched `contextvars` will not.

It gets more complicated if you're using Django Channels in the same app, but a
separate server process, as this is a legitimate usage of `asyncio` for which
`contextvars` behaves more correctly. Make sure that your channels websocket
server does not import or use gevent at all (and much less call
`gevent.monkey.patch_all`), and you should be good.

Even then there are still edge cases where this behavior is flat-out broken,
such as mixing asyncio code with gevent/eventlet-based code. In that case there
is no right, _static_ answer as to which context library to use. Even then
gevent's aggressive monkeypatching is likely to interfere in a way that cannot
be fixed from within the SDK.

This [issue has been fixed with event 20.5](https://github.com/gevent/gevent/issues/1407) but continues to be one for
eventlet.

<PlatformSection supported={["python.django"]}><markdown>

## Django Channels

A Django application using Channels 2.0 will be correctly instrumented under Python 3.7. For older versions of Python, install `aiocontextvars` from PyPI or your application will not start.

If you experience memory leaks in your channels' consumers while using the SDK, you need to wrap your entire application in [Sentry's ASGI middleware](/platforms/python/guides/asgi/). Unfortunately the SDK is not able to do so by itself, as [Channels is missing some hooks for instrumentation](https://github.com/django/channels/issues/1348).

</markdown></PlatformSection>
