src/platforms/node/common/typescript.mdx, before:

---
toc: true
title: TypeScript
sidebar_order: 500
---

Please read the [Source Maps docs](/platforms/node/sourcemaps/) first to learn how to configure Sentry SDK, upload artifacts to our servers, or use Webpack (if you’re willing to use _ts-loader_ for your TypeScript compilation).

## Sentry SDK and Source Maps with TypeScript

Using Sentry SDK and Source Maps with TypeScript, unfortunately, requires slightly more configuration.

There are two main reasons for this:

1.  TypeScript compiles and outputs all files separately
2.  SourceRoot is by default set to, well, source directory, which would require uploading artifacts from 2 separate directories and modification of source maps themselves

We can still make it work with two additional steps, so let’s do this.

### Configuring TypeScript Compiler

The first one is configuring TypeScript compiler in a way, in which we’ll override _sourceRoot_ and merge original sources with corresponding maps. The former is not required, but it’ll help Sentry display correct file paths, e.g. _/lib/utils/helper.ts_ instead of a full one like _/Users/Sentry/Projects/TSExample/lib/utils/helper.ts_. You can skip this option if you’re fine with long names.

Assuming you already have a _tsconfig.json_ file similar to this:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "es6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "allowJs": true,
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": ["./src/**/*"]
}
```

Create a new one called _tsconfig.production.json_ and paste the snippet below:

```json
{
  "extends": "./tsconfig",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "sourceMap": true,
    "inlineSources": true,
    "sourceRoot": "/"
  }
}
```

From now on, when you want to run the production build, which will then upload, you specify this specific config, e.g., _tsc -p tsconfig.production.json_. This will create necessary source maps and attach original sources to them instead of making us upload them and modify source paths in our maps by hand.

### Changing Events Frames

The second step is changing events frames so that Sentry can link stack traces with correct source files.

This can be done using _dataCallback_, in a very similar manner as we do with a single entry point described in Source Maps docs, with one, significant difference. Instead of using _basename_, we have to somehow detect and pass the root directory of our project.

Unfortunately, Node is very fragile in that manner and doesn’t have a reliable way to do this. The easiest and the most reliable method we've found, is to store the _\_\_dirname_ or _process.cwd()_ in the global variable and using it in other places of your app. This has to be done as **the first thing in your code** and from the entry point, otherwise, the path will be incorrect.

If you want, you can set this value by hand to something like _/var/www/html/some-app_ if you can get this from some external source or you know it won’t ever change.

This can also be achieved by creating a separate file called _root.js_ or similar that’ll be placed in the same place as your entry point and exporting obtained value instead of exporting it globally.

```javascript
// index.js

// This allows TypeScript to detect our global value
declare global {
  namespace NodeJS {
    interface Global {
      __rootdir__: string;
    }
  }
}

global.__rootdir__ = __dirname || process.cwd();
```

```javascript
import { RewriteFrames } from "@sentry/integrations";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new RewriteFrames({
      root: global.__rootdir__,
    }),
  ],
});
```

This config should be enough to make everything work and use TypeScript with Node. And, still be able to digest all original sources by Sentry.

### Dealing with TSLib

During compilation, if needed, TypeScript will inject some of its runtime dependencies into the output files it produces. It can include things like polyfills for function generators or some APIs not available in all the environments.

However, this makes it impossible to map frames from compiled code to the original sources, as there are no original sources.

We can still make it work, though. To do this, we need to tell the TypeScript compiler not to inject those code snippets and use its own 3rd party package called `tslib`, which is internally the part of a compiler.

The only things that have to change are inside the TypeScript config file, not your source code.

First, make sure that `tslib` is listed as the dependency in your `package.json` file. Once that's done, add two entries in `compilerOptions` section of your `tsconfig.json`. `"noEmitHelpers": true` and `"importHelpers": true`. That's it. Now, we can correctly map the source maps for all your stack trace frames, including internal TypeScript compiler code snippets.

Commit message:

Refactor Node Getting Started (#2537)
* refactor Node Getting Started

* Update src/includes/capture-error/node.mdx

Co-authored-by: Kamil Ogórek <kamil.ogorek@gmail.com>

* update with review comments

* fix broken anchor

Co-authored-by: Kamil Ogórek <kamil.ogorek@gmail.com>

src/platforms/node/common/typescript.mdx, after:

---
toc: true
title: TypeScript
sidebar_order: 500
description: "Learn more about using your Sentry SDK and Source Maps with TypeScript."
---

Please read the [Source Maps docs](/platforms/node/sourcemaps/) first to learn how to configure Sentry SDK, upload artifacts to our servers, or use Webpack (if you’re willing to use _ts-loader_ for your TypeScript compilation).

## Sentry SDK and Source Maps with TypeScript

Using Sentry SDK and Source Maps with TypeScript, unfortunately, requires slightly more configuration.

There are two main reasons for this:

1.  TypeScript compiles and outputs all files separately
2.  SourceRoot is by default set to, well, source directory, which would require uploading artifacts from 2 separate directories and modification of source maps themselves

We can still make it work with two additional steps, so let’s do this.

### Configuring TypeScript Compiler

The first one is configuring TypeScript compiler in a way, in which we’ll override _sourceRoot_ and merge original sources with corresponding maps. The former is not required, but it’ll help Sentry display correct file paths, e.g. _/lib/utils/helper.ts_ instead of a full one like _/Users/Sentry/Projects/TSExample/lib/utils/helper.ts_. You can skip this option if you’re fine with long names.

Assuming you already have a _tsconfig.json_ file similar to this:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "es6",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "allowJs": true,
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "outDir": "dist"
  },
  "include": ["./src/**/*"]
}
```

Create a new one called _tsconfig.production.json_ and paste the snippet below:

```json
{
  "extends": "./tsconfig",
  "compilerOptions": {
    "sourceMap": true,
    "inlineSources": true,
    "sourceRoot": "/"
  }
}
```

From now on, when you want to run the production build, which will then upload, you specify this specific config, e.g., _tsc -p tsconfig.production.json_. This will create necessary source maps and attach original sources to them instead of making us upload them and modify source paths in our maps by hand.

### Changing Events Frames

The second step is changing events frames so that Sentry can link stack traces with correct source files.

This can be done using _dataCallback_, in a very similar manner as we do with a single entry point described in Source Maps docs, with one, significant difference. Instead of using _basename_, we have to somehow detect and pass the root directory of our project.

Unfortunately, Node is very fragile in that manner and doesn’t have a reliable way to do this. The easiest and the most reliable method we've found, is to store the _\_\_dirname_ or _process.cwd()_ in the global variable and using it in other places of your app. This has to be done as **the first thing in your code** and from the entry point, otherwise, the path will be incorrect.

If you want, you can set this value by hand to something like _/var/www/html/some-app_ if you can get this from some external source or you know it won’t ever change.

This can also be achieved by creating a separate file called _root.js_ or similar that’ll be placed in the same place as your entry point and exporting obtained value instead of exporting it globally.

```javascript
// index.js

// This allows TypeScript to detect our global value
declare global {
  namespace NodeJS {
    interface Global {
      __rootdir__: string;
    }
  }
}

global.__rootdir__ = __dirname || process.cwd();
```

```javascript
import { RewriteFrames } from "@sentry/integrations";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  integrations: [
    new RewriteFrames({
      root: global.__rootdir__,
    }),
  ],
});
```

This config should be enough to make everything work and use TypeScript with Node. And, still be able to digest all original sources by Sentry.

### Dealing with TSLib

During compilation, if needed, TypeScript will inject some of its runtime dependencies into the output files it produces. It can include things like polyfills for function generators or some APIs not available in all the environments.

However, this makes it impossible to map frames from compiled code to the original sources, as there are no original sources.

We can still make it work, though. To do this, we need to tell the TypeScript compiler not to inject those code snippets and use its own 3rd party package called `tslib`, which is internally the part of a compiler.

The only things that have to change are inside the TypeScript config file, not your source code.

First, make sure that `tslib` is listed as the dependency in your `package.json` file. Once that's done, add two entries in `compilerOptions` section of your `tsconfig.json`. `"noEmitHelpers": true` and `"importHelpers": true`. That's it. Now, we can correctly map the source maps for all your stack trace frames, including internal TypeScript compiler code snippets.
