src/docs/product/security-policy-reporting.mdx, before:

---
title: Security Policy Reporting
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /learn/security-policy-reporting/
  - /error-reporting/security-policy-reporting/
  - /platforms/javascript/security-policy-reporting/
---

Sentry provides the ability to collect information on [Content-Security-Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) violations, as well as [Expect-CT](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Expect-CT) and [HTTP Public Key Pinning (HPKP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Public_Key_Pinning) failures by setting the proper HTTP header which results in violation/failure to be sent to Sentry endpoint specified in _report-uri_.

The integration process consists of configuring the appropriate header with your project key’s Security Header endpoint found at **Project Settings > Security Headers**.

## Content-Security-Policy

[Content-Security-Policy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_Security_Policy) (CSP) is a security standard which helps prevent cross-site scripting (XSS), clickjacking and other code injection attacks resulting from execution of malicious content in the trusted web page context. It’s enforced by browser vendors, and Sentry supports capturing CSP violations using the standard reporting hooks.

To configure CSP reports in Sentry, you’ll need to send a header from your server describing your policy, as well specifying the authenticated Sentry endpoint:

```
Content-Security-Policy: ...; report-uri https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___
```

Alternatively you can setup CSP reports to simply send reports rather than actually enforcing the policy:

```
Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only: ...; report-uri https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy).

## Expect-CT {#id2}

[Certificate Transparency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_Transparency) (CT) is a security standard which helps track and identify valid certificates, allowing identification of maliciously issued certificates.

To configure reports in Sentry, you’ll need to configure the Expect-CT a header from your server:

```
Expect-CT: ..., report-uri="https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___"
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Expect-CT).

## HTTP Public Key Pinning

[HTTP Public Key Pinning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Public_Key_Pinning) (HPKP) is a security feature that tells a web client to associate a specific cryptographic public key with a certain web server to decrease the risk of MITM attacks with forged certificates. It’s enforced by browser vendors, and Sentry supports capturing violations using the standard reporting hooks.

To configure HPKP reports in Sentry, you’ll need to send a header from your server describing your policy, as well specifying the authenticated Sentry endpoint:

```
Public-Key-Pins: ...; report-uri="https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___"
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Public_Key_Pinning).

## Additional Configuration

In addition to the `sentry_key` parameter, you may also pass the following within the querystring for the report URI:

`sentry_environment`

: The environment name (e.g. production).

`sentry_release`

: The version of the application.

Commit message:

Add: front matter description to remaining product docs (#2586)
Updated last few Product docs with descriptions in the front matter.

src/docs/product/security-policy-reporting.mdx, after:

---
title: Security Policy Reporting
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /learn/security-policy-reporting/
  - /error-reporting/security-policy-reporting/
  - /platforms/javascript/security-policy-reporting/
description: "Learn more about how Sentry provides the ability to collect information on Content-Security-Policy (CSP) violations, as well as Expect-CT and HTTP Public Key Pinning (HPKP) failures."
---

Sentry provides the ability to collect information on [Content-Security-Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy) violations, as well as [Expect-CT](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Expect-CT) and [HTTP Public Key Pinning (HPKP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Public_Key_Pinning) failures by setting the proper HTTP header which results in violation/failure to be sent to Sentry endpoint specified in _report-uri_.

The integration process consists of configuring the appropriate header with your project key’s Security Header endpoint found at **Project Settings > Security Headers**.

## Content-Security-Policy

[Content-Security-Policy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_Security_Policy) (CSP) is a security standard which helps prevent cross-site scripting (XSS), clickjacking and other code injection attacks resulting from execution of malicious content in the trusted web page context. It’s enforced by browser vendors, and Sentry supports capturing CSP violations using the standard reporting hooks.

To configure CSP reports in Sentry, you’ll need to send a header from your server describing your policy, as well specifying the authenticated Sentry endpoint:

```
Content-Security-Policy: ...; report-uri https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___
```

Alternatively you can setup CSP reports to simply send reports rather than actually enforcing the policy:

```
Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only: ...; report-uri https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy).

## Expect-CT {#id2}

[Certificate Transparency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_Transparency) (CT) is a security standard which helps track and identify valid certificates, allowing identification of maliciously issued certificates.

To configure reports in Sentry, you’ll need to configure the Expect-CT a header from your server:

```
Expect-CT: ..., report-uri="https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___"
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Expect-CT).

## HTTP Public Key Pinning

[HTTP Public Key Pinning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Public_Key_Pinning) (HPKP) is a security feature that tells a web client to associate a specific cryptographic public key with a certain web server to decrease the risk of MITM attacks with forged certificates. It’s enforced by browser vendors, and Sentry supports capturing violations using the standard reporting hooks.

To configure HPKP reports in Sentry, you’ll need to send a header from your server describing your policy, as well specifying the authenticated Sentry endpoint:

```
Public-Key-Pins: ...; report-uri="https://___ORG_INGEST_DOMAIN___/api/___PROJECT_ID___/security/?sentry_key=___PUBLIC_KEY___"
```

For more information, see the article on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Public_Key_Pinning).

## Additional Configuration

In addition to the `sentry_key` parameter, you may also pass the following within the querystring for the report URI:

`sentry_environment`

: The environment name (e.g. production).

`sentry_release`

: The version of the application.
