src/platforms/java/guides/spring-boot/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Spring Boot
---

The `sentry-spring-boot-starter` library enhances [Sentry Spring](/platforms/java/guides/spring/) support with an auto-configuration for [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) providing following features:

- fine-grained configuration via `application.properties`
- automatically setting the release on `SentryEvent` when [Spring Boot Git integration is configured](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-git-info)
- automatically registering `BeforeSendCallback`, `BeforeBreadcrumbCallback`, `EventProcessor`, `Integration` beans

For the best experience we recommend using Sentry Spring Boot integration together with one of the logging framework integrations as they seamlessly work together:

- [Logback](/platforms/java/guides/logback/)
- [Log4j2](/platforms/java/guides/log4j2/)

Once this integration is configured you can _also_ use Sentry’s static API, [as shown on the usage page](usage/), in order to do things like record breadcrumbs, set the current user, or manually send events.

<Alert level="info">
    To use Sentry <strong>without</strong> Spring Boot, we recommend using <a href={"/platforms/java/guides/spring"}>Sentry Spring</a> integration.
</Alert>

The source can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/tree/master/sentry-spring).

## Install

```xml {tabTitle:Maven}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.sentry</groupId>
    <artifactId>sentry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}</version>
</dependency>
```

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle}
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-spring-boot-starter:{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}'
```

For other dependency managers see the [central Maven repository](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.sentry/sentry-spring).

## Configure

The `sentry-spring-boot-starter` must be provided with a `sentry.dsn` property via `application.properties` or `application.yml`:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
# NOTE: Replace the test DSN below with YOUR OWN DSN to see the events from this app in your Sentry project/dashboard
sentry.dsn=___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
# NOTE: Replace the test DSN below with YOUR OWN DSN to see the events from this app in your Sentry project/dashboard
sentry:
  dsn: ___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

### Recording User Information From HTTP Request

In order to record user's IP address and `Principal#name` as the username, sending personal information flag has to be set to `true`.

```properties {tabTitle:application.properties}
sentry.send-default-pii=true
```

```yaml {tabTitle:application.yml}
sentry:
  send-default-pii: true
```

### Recording Custom User Information

In order to record custom user information, you care register a bean that implements `SentryUserProvider` interface.

```java
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import io.sentry.core.protocol.User;
import io.sentry.spring.SentryUserProvider;

@Component
class CustomSentryUserProvider implements SentryUserProvider {
    public User provideUser() {
        User user = User();
        // ... set user information
        return user
    }
}
```

```kotlin
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component
import io.sentry.core.protocol.User
import io.sentry.spring.SentryUserProvider

@Component
class CustomSentryUserProvider : SentryUserProvider {
    override fun provideUser(): User? {
        val user = User()
        // ... set user information
        return user
    }
}
```

### Using Git Commit ID As The Release

When Spring Boot is [configured to generate Git information](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-git-info) every event triggered by Sentry will have a `release` field set to the current Git commit ID that will enable [Monitor Release Health](/product/releases/health/) Sentry feature.

This feature can be disabled in `application.properties` file:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.use-git-commit-id-as-release=false
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  use-git-commit-id-as-release: false
```

### Registering Custom Event Processor

A Spring bean implementing `EventProcessor` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. There can be multiple event processors registered in single application.

```java
import io.sentry.SentryEvent;
import io.sentry.EventProcessor;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomEventProcessor implements EventProcessor {
  @Override
  public SentryEvent process(SentryEvent event, Object hint) {
    // modify the event or return null to drop it
    return event;
  }
}
```

### Registering Custom Before Send Callback

A Spring bean implementing `BeforeSendCallback` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. Note that there can be only single bean like that.

```java
import io.sentry.SentryEvent;
import io.sentry.SentryOptions;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomBeforeSendCallback implements SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback {
  @Override
  public SentryEvent execute(SentryEvent event, Object hint) {
    event.setServerName(null);
    return event;
  }
}
```

### Registering Custom Before Breadcrumb Callback

A Spring bean implementing `BeforeBreadcrumbCallback` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. Note that there can be only single bean like that.

```java
import io.sentry.Breadcrumb;
import io.sentry.SentryOptions;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomBeforeBreadcrumbCallback implements SentryOptions.BeforeBreadcrumbCallback {

  @Override
  public Breadcrumb execute(Breadcrumb breadcrumb, Object hint) {
    // Don't add breadcrumbs with message containing:
    if (breadcrumb.getMessage() != null
      && breadcrumb.getMessage().contains("bad breadcrumb")) {
      return null;
    }
    return breadcrumb;
  }
}
```

## Using With Logging Framework Integration

For the best experience we recommend using Sentry Spring Boot integration together with one of the logging framework integrations as they seamlessly work together.

### Logback

To use Sentry Logback integration in Spring Boot application you must include a dependency to `sentry-logback` module and Sentry Spring Boot Starter will auto-configure `SentryAppender`:

```xml {tabTitle:Maven}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.sentry</groupId>
    <artifactId>sentry-logback</artifactId>
    <version>{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}</version>
</dependency>
```

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle}
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-logback:{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}'
```

Minimum logging levels for `SentryAppender` can be configured in `application.properties` or `application.yml` file.

```properties
sentry.logging.minimum-event-level=info
sentry.logging.minimum-breadcrumb-level=debug
```

When `SentryAppender` auto-configuration does not suit your needs it can be turned off by setting:

```properties
sentry.logging.enabled=false
```

If you decide to opt-out from `application.properties` based Spring Boot logging configuration and configure logging in `logback-spring.xml` file, `SentryAppender` can be configured in the following way:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<configuration>
  <include resource="org/springframework/boot/logging/logback/defaults.xml"/>
  <include resource="org/springframework/boot/logging/logback/console-appender.xml" />

  <appender name="SENTRY" class="io.sentry.logback.SentryAppender" />

  <root level="info">
    <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE" />
    <appender-ref ref="SENTRY" />
  </root>
</configuration>
```

<Note><markdown>

There is no need to configure _DSN_ in Logback configuration file as Sentry gets configured via Spring Boot integration.

However, if potential errors that appear during the startup are meant to be sent to Sentry, the _DSN_ must be provided to both Logback and Spring Boot configuration.

</markdown></Note>

### Log4j2

To use Sentry Log4j2 integration in Spring Boot application, [follow the guide on configuring Log4j2 with Spring Boot](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-configure-log4j-for-logging) and configure `SentryAppender` in `log4j2.xml` file:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Configuration status="warn" packages="org.apache.logging.log4j.core,io.sentry.log4j2">
    <Appenders>
        <Console name="Console" target="SYSTEM_OUT">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n"/>
        </Console>
        <Sentry name="Sentry" />
    </Appenders>
    <Loggers>
        <Root level="info">
            <AppenderRef ref="Sentry"/>
            <AppenderRef ref="Console"/>
        </Root>
    </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

<Note><markdown>

There is no need to configure _DSN_ in Log4j2 configuration file as Sentry gets configured via Spring Boot integration.

However, if potential errors that appear during the startup are meant to be sent to Sentry, the _DSN_ must be provided to both Log4j2 and Spring Boot configuration.

</markdown></Note>

Commit message:

Add minimum Spring Boot version to docs. (#2482)
Co-authored-by: Bruno Garcia <bruno@brunogarcia.com>
Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/java/guides/spring-boot/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Spring Boot
---

The `sentry-spring-boot-starter` library enhances [Sentry Spring](/platforms/java/guides/spring/) support with an auto-configuration for [Spring Boot](https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot) providing following features:

- fine-grained configuration via `application.properties`
- automatically setting the release on `SentryEvent` when [Spring Boot Git integration is configured](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-git-info)
- automatically registering `BeforeSendCallback`, `BeforeBreadcrumbCallback`, `EventProcessor`, `Integration` beans

<Note><markdown>

We support Spring Boot 2.1.0 and above. Still on an older version? You can use [our legacy SDK](/platforms/java/legacy/spring/).

</markdown></Note>

For the best experience we recommend using Sentry Spring Boot integration together with one of the logging framework integrations as they seamlessly work together:

- [Logback](/platforms/java/guides/logback/)
- [Log4j2](/platforms/java/guides/log4j2/)

Once this integration is configured you can _also_ use Sentry’s static API, [as shown on the usage page](usage/), in order to do things like record breadcrumbs, set the current user, or manually send events.

<Alert level="info">
    To use Sentry <strong>without</strong> Spring Boot, we recommend using <a href={"/platforms/java/guides/spring"}>Sentry Spring</a> integration.
</Alert>

The source can be found [on GitHub](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/tree/master/sentry-spring).

## Install

```xml {tabTitle:Maven}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.sentry</groupId>
    <artifactId>sentry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}</version>
</dependency>
```

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle}
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-spring-boot-starter:{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}'
```

For other dependency managers see the [central Maven repository](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.sentry/sentry-spring).

## Configure

The `sentry-spring-boot-starter` must be provided with a `sentry.dsn` property via `application.properties` or `application.yml`:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
# NOTE: Replace the test DSN below with YOUR OWN DSN to see the events from this app in your Sentry project/dashboard
sentry.dsn=___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
# NOTE: Replace the test DSN below with YOUR OWN DSN to see the events from this app in your Sentry project/dashboard
sentry:
  dsn: ___PUBLIC_DSN___
```

### Recording User Information From HTTP Request

In order to record user's IP address and `Principal#name` as the username, sending personal information flag has to be set to `true`.

```properties {tabTitle:application.properties}
sentry.send-default-pii=true
```

```yaml {tabTitle:application.yml}
sentry:
  send-default-pii: true
```

### Recording Custom User Information

In order to record custom user information, you care register a bean that implements `SentryUserProvider` interface.

```java
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;
import io.sentry.core.protocol.User;
import io.sentry.spring.SentryUserProvider;

@Component
class CustomSentryUserProvider implements SentryUserProvider {
    public User provideUser() {
        User user = User();
        // ... set user information
        return user
    }
}
```

```kotlin
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component
import io.sentry.core.protocol.User
import io.sentry.spring.SentryUserProvider

@Component
class CustomSentryUserProvider : SentryUserProvider {
    override fun provideUser(): User? {
        val user = User()
        // ... set user information
        return user
    }
}
```

### Using Git Commit ID As The Release

When Spring Boot is [configured to generate Git information](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-git-info) every event triggered by Sentry will have a `release` field set to the current Git commit ID that will enable [Monitor Release Health](/product/releases/health/) Sentry feature.

This feature can be disabled in `application.properties` file:

```properties {filename:application.properties}
sentry.use-git-commit-id-as-release=false
```

```yaml {filename:application.yml}
sentry:
  use-git-commit-id-as-release: false
```

### Registering Custom Event Processor

A Spring bean implementing `EventProcessor` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. There can be multiple event processors registered in single application.

```java
import io.sentry.SentryEvent;
import io.sentry.EventProcessor;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomEventProcessor implements EventProcessor {
  @Override
  public SentryEvent process(SentryEvent event, Object hint) {
    // modify the event or return null to drop it
    return event;
  }
}
```

### Registering Custom Before Send Callback

A Spring bean implementing `BeforeSendCallback` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. Note that there can be only single bean like that.

```java
import io.sentry.SentryEvent;
import io.sentry.SentryOptions;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomBeforeSendCallback implements SentryOptions.BeforeSendCallback {
  @Override
  public SentryEvent execute(SentryEvent event, Object hint) {
    event.setServerName(null);
    return event;
  }
}
```

### Registering Custom Before Breadcrumb Callback

A Spring bean implementing `BeforeBreadcrumbCallback` will be automatically set on `SentryOptions` during Sentry SDK auto-configuration. Note that there can be only single bean like that.

```java
import io.sentry.Breadcrumb;
import io.sentry.SentryOptions;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component
public class CustomBeforeBreadcrumbCallback implements SentryOptions.BeforeBreadcrumbCallback {

  @Override
  public Breadcrumb execute(Breadcrumb breadcrumb, Object hint) {
    // Don't add breadcrumbs with message containing:
    if (breadcrumb.getMessage() != null
      && breadcrumb.getMessage().contains("bad breadcrumb")) {
      return null;
    }
    return breadcrumb;
  }
}
```

## Using With Logging Framework Integration

For the best experience we recommend using Sentry Spring Boot integration together with one of the logging framework integrations as they seamlessly work together.

### Logback

To use Sentry Logback integration in Spring Boot application you must include a dependency to `sentry-logback` module and Sentry Spring Boot Starter will auto-configure `SentryAppender`:

```xml {tabTitle:Maven}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.sentry</groupId>
    <artifactId>sentry-logback</artifactId>
    <version>{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}</version>
</dependency>
```

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle}
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-logback:{{ packages.version('sentry.java', '3.0.0') }}'
```

Minimum logging levels for `SentryAppender` can be configured in `application.properties` or `application.yml` file.

```properties
sentry.logging.minimum-event-level=info
sentry.logging.minimum-breadcrumb-level=debug
```

When `SentryAppender` auto-configuration does not suit your needs it can be turned off by setting:

```properties
sentry.logging.enabled=false
```

If you decide to opt-out from `application.properties` based Spring Boot logging configuration and configure logging in `logback-spring.xml` file, `SentryAppender` can be configured in the following way:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<configuration>
  <include resource="org/springframework/boot/logging/logback/defaults.xml"/>
  <include resource="org/springframework/boot/logging/logback/console-appender.xml" />

  <appender name="SENTRY" class="io.sentry.logback.SentryAppender" />

  <root level="info">
    <appender-ref ref="CONSOLE" />
    <appender-ref ref="SENTRY" />
  </root>
</configuration>
```

<Note><markdown>

There is no need to configure _DSN_ in Logback configuration file as Sentry gets configured via Spring Boot integration.

However, if potential errors that appear during the startup are meant to be sent to Sentry, the _DSN_ must be provided to both Logback and Spring Boot configuration.

</markdown></Note>

### Log4j2

To use Sentry Log4j2 integration in Spring Boot application, [follow the guide on configuring Log4j2 with Spring Boot](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto.html#howto-configure-log4j-for-logging) and configure `SentryAppender` in `log4j2.xml` file:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Configuration status="warn" packages="org.apache.logging.log4j.core,io.sentry.log4j2">
    <Appenders>
        <Console name="Console" target="SYSTEM_OUT">
            <PatternLayout pattern="%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n"/>
        </Console>
        <Sentry name="Sentry" />
    </Appenders>
    <Loggers>
        <Root level="info">
            <AppenderRef ref="Sentry"/>
            <AppenderRef ref="Console"/>
        </Root>
    </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

<Note><markdown>

There is no need to configure _DSN_ in Log4j2 configuration file as Sentry gets configured via Spring Boot integration.

However, if potential errors that appear during the startup are meant to be sent to Sentry, the _DSN_ must be provided to both Log4j2 and Spring Boot configuration.

</markdown></Note>
