src/docs/product/relay/options.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration Options
description: "Configure Relay to suit the needs of your organization."
sidebar_order: 3
redirect_from:
  - /meta/relay/options/
---

Configuration for Relay is recorded in the file `.relay/config.yml`. To change this location, pass the `--config` option to any Relay command:

```shell
❯ ./relay run --config /path/to/folder
```

All configuration keys are `snake_case`.

## Relay

The following document the general settings for Relay:

`relay.mode`

: _String, default: `managed`_, possible values: `managed`, `static`, `proxy`
  and `capture`

  Controls how Relay obtains the project configuration for events. For detailed
  explanation of these modes, see [Relay Modes](/product/relay/modes/).

`relay.upstream`

: _String, default: `https://sentry.io`_

  Fully qualified URL of the upstream Relay or Sentry instance.

  <Alert level="warning" title="Important">

  Relay does not check for cycles. Do not set this option to an endpoint
  that will cause events to be cycled back here.

  </Alert>

`relay.host`

: _String, default: `0.0.0.0` in Docker, otherwise `127.0.0.1`_

  The host to which Relay should bind (network interface). Example: `0.0.0.0`

`relay.port`

: _Integer, default: `3000`_

  The port to bind for the unencrypted Relay HTTP server. Example: `3000`

`relay.tls_port`

: _Integer, optional_

  Optional port to bind for the encrypted Relay HTTPS server. Example: `3001`

  This is in addition to the `port` option: If you set up a HTTPS server at
  `tls_port`, the HTTP server at `port` still exists.

`relay.tls_identity_path`

: _String, optional_

  The filesystem path to the identity (DER-encoded PKCS12) to use for the HTTPS
  server. Relative paths are evaluated in the current working directory.
  Example: `relay_dev.pfx`

`relay.tls_identity_password`

: _String, optional_

  Password for the PKCS12 archive in `relay.tls_identity_path`.

## HTTP

These settings control the network-related configuration.

`http.timeout`

: _Integer, default: `5`_

  Timeout for upstream requests in seconds.

  This timeout covers the time from sending the request until receiving response
  headers. Neither the connection process and handshakes, nor reading the
  response body is covered in this timeout.

`http.connection_timeout`

: _Integer, default: `3`_

  Timeout for establishing connections with the upstream in seconds.

  This includes SSL handshakes. Relay reuses connections when the upstream
  supports connection keep-alive. Connections are retained for a maximum 75
  seconds, or 15 seconds of inactivity.

`http.max_retry_interval`

: _Integer, default: `60`_

  Maximum interval between failed request retries in seconds.

`host.header`

: _String, default: `null`_

  The custom HTTP Host header to be sent to the upstream.

## Caching

These settings fine tune caching of project states.

`cache.project_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `300` (5 minutes)_

  The cache timeout for project configurations in seconds. Irrelevant if you use
  the "simple proxy mode", where your project config is stored in local files.

`cache.project_grace_period`

: _Integer, default: `0` (seconds)_

  Number of seconds to continue using this project configuration after cache
  expiry while a new state is being fetched. This is added on top of
  `cache.project_expiry` and `cache.miss_expiry`.

`cache.relay_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `3600` (1 hour)_

  The cache timeout for downstream Relay info (public keys) in seconds. This is
  only relevant if you plan to connect further Relays to this one.

`cache.event_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `600` (10 minutes)_

  The cache timeout for events (store) before dropping them.

`cache.miss_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `60` (1 minute)_

  The cache timeout for non-existing entries.

`cache.batch_interval`

: _Integer, default: `100` (100 milliseconds)_

  The buffer timeout for batched queries before sending them upstream **in
  milliseconds**.

`cache.batch_size`

: _Integer, default: `500`_

  The maximum number of project configs to fetch from Sentry at once.

`cache.file_interval`

: _Integer, default: `10` (10 seconds)_

  Interval for watching local cache override files in seconds.

`cache.event_buffer_size`

: _Integer, default: `1000`_

  The maximum number of events that are buffered in case of network issues or a
  high rate of incoming events.

`cache.eviction_interval`

: _Integer, default: `60` (seconds)_

  Interval for evicting outdated project configs from memory.

## Size Limits

These settings control HTTP-related limits. All values are either integers, or are
human-readable strings of a number and a human-readable unit, such as:

- `500B`
- `1kB` (_1,000_ bytes)
- `1KB` or `1KiB` (_1,024_ bytes)
- `1MB` (_1,000,000_ bytes)
- `1MiB` (_1,048,576_ bytes)

`limits.max_concurrent_requests`

: _Integer, default: `100`_

  The maximum number of concurrent connections upstream. If supported by
  the upstream, Relay supports connection keepalive.

`limits.max_concurrent_queries`

: _Integer, default: `5`_

  The maximum number of queries that can be sent concurrently from Relay
  upstream before Relay starts buffering requests. Queries are all requests made
  upstream for obtaining information and explicitly exclude event
  submission.

  The concurrency of queries is additionally constrained by
  `max_concurrent_requests`.

`limits.max_event_size`

: _String, default: `1MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for events.

`limits.max_attachment_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum size for each attachment.

`limits.max_attachments_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum combined size for all attachments in an envelope or request.

`limits.max_envelope_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for an entire envelopes. Individual limits still
  apply.

`limits.max_session_count`

: _Integer, default: `100`_

  The maximum number of session items per envelope.

`limits.max_api_payload_size`

: _String, default: `20MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for general API requests.

`limits.max_api_file_upload_size`

: _String, default: `40MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for file uploads and chunks.

`limits.max_api_chunk_upload_size`

: _String, default: `100MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for chunks.

`limits.max_thread_count`

: _Integer, default: number of cpus_

  The maximum number of threads to spawn for each CPU and web worker.

  The total number of threads spawned will roughly be `2 * limits.max_thread_count + N`, where `N` is a fixed set of management threads.

`limits.query_timeout`

: _Integer, default: `30` (seconds)_

  The maximum number of seconds a query is allowed to take across retries.
  Individual requests have lower timeouts.

`limits.max_connection_rate`

: _Integer, default: `256`_

  The maximum number of connections to Relay that can be created at once.

`limits.max_pending_connections`

: _Integer, default: `2048`_

  The maximum number of pending connects to Relay. This corresponds to the
  backlog param of `listen(2)` in POSIX.

`limits.max_connections`

: _Integer: default: `25_000`_

  The maximum number of open incoming connections to Relay.

`limits.shutdown_timeout`

: _Integer, default:L `10` (seconds)_

  The maximum number of seconds to wait for pending events after receiving a
  shutdown signal.

## Logging

`logging.level`

: _String, default: `info`_

  The log level for the relay. One of:

  - `off`
  - `error`
  - `warn`
  - `info`
  - `debug`
  - `trace`

  <Alert level="warning" title="Warning">

  On `debug` and `trace` levels, Relay emits extremely verbose messages which
  can have severe impact on application performance.

  </Alert>

`logging.log_failed_payloads`

: _boolean, default: `false`_

  Logs full event payloads of failed events to the log stream.

`logging.format`

: _String, default: `auto`_

  Controls the log format. One of:

  - `auto`: Auto detect (pretty for TTY, simplified for other)
  - `pretty`: Human readable format with colors
  - `simplified`: Simplified human readable log output
  - `json`: JSON records, suitable for logging software

`logging.enable_backtraces`

: _boolean, default: `true`_

  Writes back traces for all internal errors to the log stream and includes them
  in Sentry errors, if enabled.

## StatsD Metrics

`metrics.statsd`

: _String, optional_

  If set to a host/port string then metrics will be reported to this StatsD
  instance.

`metrics.prefix`

: _String, default: `sentry.relay`_

  The prefix that should be added to all metrics.

`metrics.default_tags`

: _Map of strings to strings, default empty_

  A set of default tags that should be attached to all outgoing StatsD metrics.

`metrics.hostname_tag`

: _String, optional_

  If set, reports the current hostname under the given tag name for all metrics.

## Internal Error Reporting

Configures error reporting for errors happening within Relay. Disabled by
default.

`sentry.enabled`

: _boolean, default: `false`_

  Whether to report internal errors to a separate DSN. `false` means no internal
  errors are sent, but still logged.

`sentry.dsn`

: _String, optional_

  Sentry DSN to which to report internal Relay failures.

  We recommend setting this to a value that will not send Relay errors to
  itself. Ideally, this value should send errors to Sentry directly, not another
  Relay.

Commit message:

relay: Next iteration of refactoring (#2365)

src/docs/product/relay/options.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration Options
description: "Configure Relay to suit the needs of your organization."
sidebar_order: 3
redirect_from:
  - /meta/relay/options/
---

Configuration for Relay is recorded in the file `.relay/config.yml`. To change this location, pass the `--config` option to any Relay command:

```shell
❯ ./relay run --config /path/to/folder
```

All configuration keys are `snake_case`.

## Relay

The following document the general settings for Relay:

`relay.mode`

: _String, default: `managed`_, possible values: `managed`, `static`, `proxy`
  and `capture`

  Controls how Relay obtains the project configuration for events. For detailed
  explanation of these modes, see [Relay Modes](/product/relay/modes/).

`relay.upstream`

: _String, default: `https://sentry.io`_

  Fully qualified URL of the upstream Relay or Sentry instance.

  <Alert level="warning" title="Important">

  Relay does not check for cycles. Do not set this option to an endpoint
  that will cause events to be cycled back here.

  </Alert>

`relay.host`

: _String, default: `0.0.0.0` in Docker, otherwise `127.0.0.1`_

  The host to which Relay should bind (network interface). Example: `0.0.0.0`

`relay.port`

: _Integer, default: `3000`_

  The port to bind for the unencrypted Relay HTTP server. Example: `3000`

`relay.tls_port`

: _Integer, optional_

  Optional port to bind for the encrypted Relay HTTPS server. Example: `3001`

  This is in addition to the `port` option: If you set up a HTTPS server at
  `tls_port`, the HTTP server at `port` still exists.

`relay.tls_identity_path`

: _String, optional_

  The filesystem path to the identity (DER-encoded PKCS12) to use for the HTTPS
  server. Relative paths are evaluated in the current working directory.
  Example: `relay_dev.pfx`

`relay.tls_identity_password`

: _String, optional_

  Password for the PKCS12 archive in `relay.tls_identity_path`.

## HTTP

These settings control the network-related configuration.

`http.timeout`

: _Integer, default: `5`_

  Timeout for upstream requests in seconds.

  This timeout covers the time from sending the request until receiving response
  headers. Neither the connection process and handshakes, nor reading the
  response body is covered in this timeout.

`http.connection_timeout`

: _Integer, default: `3`_

  Timeout for establishing connections with the upstream in seconds.

  This includes SSL handshakes. Relay reuses connections when the upstream
  supports connection keep-alive. Connections are retained for a maximum 75
  seconds, or 15 seconds of inactivity.

`http.max_retry_interval`

: _Integer, default: `60`_

  Maximum interval between failed request retries in seconds.

`host.header`

: _String, default: `null`_

  The custom HTTP Host header to be sent to the upstream.

## Caching

These settings fine tune caching of project states.

`cache.project_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `300` (5 minutes)_

  The cache timeout for project configurations in seconds. Irrelevant if you use
  the "simple proxy mode", where your project config is stored in local files.

`cache.project_grace_period`

: _Integer, default: `0` (seconds)_

  Number of seconds to continue using this project configuration after cache
  expiry while a new state is being fetched. This is added on top of
  `cache.project_expiry` and `cache.miss_expiry`.

`cache.relay_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `3600` (1 hour)_

  The cache timeout for downstream Relay info (public keys) in seconds. This is
  only relevant if you plan to connect further Relays to this one.

`cache.event_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `600` (10 minutes)_

  The cache timeout for events (store) before dropping them.

`cache.miss_expiry`

: _Integer, default: `60` (1 minute)_

  The cache timeout for non-existing entries.

`cache.batch_interval`

: _Integer, default: `100` (100 milliseconds)_

  The buffer timeout for batched queries before sending them upstream **in
  milliseconds**.

`cache.batch_size`

: _Integer, default: `500`_

  The maximum number of project configs to fetch from Sentry at once.

`cache.file_interval`

: _Integer, default: `10` (10 seconds)_

  Interval for watching local cache override files in seconds.

`cache.event_buffer_size`

: _Integer, default: `1000`_

  The maximum number of events that are buffered in case of network issues or a
  high rate of incoming events.

`cache.eviction_interval`

: _Integer, default: `60` (seconds)_

  Interval for evicting outdated project configs from memory.

## Size Limits

These settings control HTTP-related limits. All values are either integers, or are
human-readable strings of a number and a human-readable unit, such as:

- `500B`
- `1kB` (_1,000_ bytes)
- `1KB` or `1KiB` (_1,024_ bytes)
- `1MB` (_1,000,000_ bytes)
- `1MiB` (_1,048,576_ bytes)

`limits.max_concurrent_requests`

: _Integer, default: `100`_

  The maximum number of concurrent connections upstream. If supported by
  the upstream, Relay supports connection keepalive.

`limits.max_concurrent_queries`

: _Integer, default: `5`_

  The maximum number of queries that can be sent concurrently from Relay
  upstream before Relay starts buffering requests. Queries are all requests made
  upstream for obtaining information and explicitly exclude event
  submission.

  The concurrency of queries is additionally constrained by
  `max_concurrent_requests`.

`limits.max_event_size`

: _String, default: `1MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for events.

`limits.max_attachment_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum size for each attachment.

`limits.max_attachments_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum combined size for all attachments in an envelope or request.

`limits.max_envelope_size`

: _String, default: `50MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for an entire envelopes. Individual limits still
  apply.

`limits.max_session_count`

: _Integer, default: `100`_

  The maximum number of session items per envelope.

`limits.max_api_payload_size`

: _String, default: `20MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for general API requests.

`limits.max_api_file_upload_size`

: _String, default: `40MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for file uploads and chunks.

`limits.max_api_chunk_upload_size`

: _String, default: `100MiB`_

  The maximum payload size for chunks.

`limits.max_thread_count`

: _Integer, default: number of cpus_

  The maximum number of threads to spawn for each CPU and web worker.

  The total number of threads spawned will roughly be `2 * limits.max_thread_count + N`, where `N` is a fixed set of management threads.

`limits.query_timeout`

: _Integer, default: `30` (seconds)_

  The maximum number of seconds a query is allowed to take across retries.
  Individual requests have lower timeouts.

`limits.max_connection_rate`

: _Integer, default: `256`_

  The maximum number of connections to Relay that can be created at once.

`limits.max_pending_connections`

: _Integer, default: `2048`_

  The maximum number of pending connects to Relay. This corresponds to the
  backlog param of `listen(2)` in POSIX.

`limits.max_connections`

: _Integer: default: `25_000`_

  The maximum number of open incoming connections to Relay.

`limits.shutdown_timeout`

: _Integer, default:L `10` (seconds)_

  The maximum number of seconds to wait for pending events after receiving a
  shutdown signal.

## Logging

`logging.level`

: _String, default: `info`_

  The log level for the relay. One of:

  - `off`
  - `error`
  - `warn`
  - `info`
  - `debug`
  - `trace`

  <Alert level="warning" title="Warning">

  On `debug` and `trace` levels, Relay emits extremely verbose messages which
  can have severe impact on application performance.

  </Alert>

`logging.log_failed_payloads`

: _boolean, default: `false`_

  Logs full event payloads of failed events to the log stream.

`logging.format`

: _String, default: `auto`_

  Controls the log format. One of:

  - `auto`: Auto detect (pretty for TTY, simplified for other)
  - `pretty`: Human readable format with colors
  - `simplified`: Simplified human readable log output
  - `json`: JSON records, suitable for logging software

`logging.enable_backtraces`

: _boolean, default: `true`_

  Writes back traces for all internal errors to the log stream and includes them
  in Sentry errors, if enabled.

## StatsD Metrics

`metrics.statsd`

: _String, optional_

  If set to a host/port string then metrics will be reported to this StatsD
  instance.

`metrics.prefix`

: _String, default: `sentry.relay`_

  The prefix that should be added to all metrics.

`metrics.default_tags`

: _Map of strings to strings, default empty_

  A set of default tags that should be attached to all outgoing StatsD metrics.

`metrics.hostname_tag`

: _String, optional_

  If set, adds a tag of the given name and sets it to the hostname of the machine that
  is running Relay. This configuration is useful to distinguish multiple Relays.

## Internal Error Reporting

Configures error reporting for errors happening within Relay. Disabled by
default.

`sentry.enabled`

: _boolean, default: `false`_

  Whether to report internal errors to a separate DSN. `false` means no internal
  errors are sent, but still logged.

`sentry.dsn`

: _String, optional_

  Sentry DSN to which to report internal Relay failures.

  We recommend setting this to a value that will not send Relay errors to
  itself. Ideally, this value should send errors to Sentry directly, not another
  Relay.
