src/platforms/native/guides/minidumps/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Minidumps
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/minidump/
  - /platforms/native/minidump/
  - /clients/minidump/
---

Sentry can process Minidump crash reports, a memory dump used on Windows and by
open-source libraries like [_Breakpad_](/platforms/native/guides/breakpad/) or [_Crashpad_](/platforms/native/guides/crashpad/). You can either choose to
generate and upload minidumps yourself or use a higher-level SDK for platforms
with built-in support for native crashes:

- [_Native (C/C++)_](/platforms/native/)
- [_Apple (Cocoa)_](/platforms/apple/)
- [_Electron_](/platforms/electron/)

In order to receive symbolicated stack traces, you have to upload debug
information to Sentry. For more information, see [Debug Information Files](/workflow/debug-files/).

## What is a Minidump? {#what-is-a-minidump}

Minidumps are files containing the most important memory regions of a crashed
process. When the process crashes, the minidump is written to the user’s disk
and can later be uploaded to Sentry. A minidump typically includes:

- The runtime stack of each thread that was active during the time of the crash.
  This allows yout to reconstruct stack traces for all stacks and even infer
  variable values in some cases.
- Thread contexts -- that is, register values -- at the time of the crash. This
  is especially relevant for stack walking.
- Optionally, the process heap. By default, this is not included to keep
  minidumps at a reasonable size. Sentry does not read the heap so that it can
  be safely omitted.
- The crash reason and an optional memory address associated to with the crash.
  For example, memory access violations. In the case of assertions, the
  assertion message is also included in the dump.
- Meta data about the CPU architecture and the user’s operating system.

<Alert level="" title="A Word on Data Privacy"><markdown>

Minidumps are memory dumps of the process at the moment it crashes. As such,
they might contain sensitive information on the target system, such as
environment variables, local pathnames or maybe even in-memory representations
of input fields, including passwords. **Sentry does not store these memory
dumps**. Once processed, they are removed immediately, and all sensitive
information is stripped from the resulting issues.

</markdown></Alert>

In addition to this information, you can add further metadata specific to
Sentry, which can help in organizing and analyzing issues. For more information,
see [Passing Additional Data](#minidump-additional).

## Creating and Uploading Minidumps {#minidump-integration}

Depending on your operating system and programming language, there are various
alternatives to create minidumps and upload them to Sentry. See the following
resources for libraries that support generating minidump crash reports:

- [Native SDK](/platforms/native/)
- [Google Breakpad](/platforms/native/guides/breakpad/)
- [Google Crashpad](/platforms/native/guides/crashpad/)

If you have already integrated a library that generates minidumps and would just
like to upload them to Sentry, you need to configure the _Minidump Endpoint
URL_, which can be found at _Project Settings > Client Keys (DSN)_. This
endpoint expects a `POST` request with the minidump in the
`upload_file_minidump` field:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp
```

To send additional information, add more form fields to this request. For a full
description of fields accepted by Sentry, see [Passing Additional
Data](#minidump-additional).

## Passing Additional Data {#minidump-additional}

You can add more information to crash reports by merely adding more fields to
the upload HTTP request. All these fields will be collected in the “Extra Data”
section in Sentry:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F custom_field=value
```

Additionally, you can set all attributes corresponding to the Sentry event
interface in a `sentry` field. This field either accepts JSON data or its values
can be flattened with the bracket syntax. For example, to set the release and
add a tag, send:

```bash
# As JSON
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F 'sentry={"release":"1.2.3","tags":{"mytag":"value"}}'

# flattened
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F 'sentry[release]=1.0.0' \
  -F 'sentry[tags][mytag]=value'
```

For the full list of supported values, see [_Event Payloads_](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/) and linked
documents.

## Size Limits

Event ingestion imposes limits on the size and number of fields in multipart
uploads. These limits are subject to future change and defined currently as:

- _20MB_ for a compressed minidump request
- _100MB_ for the full body after decompression
- _100MB_ for all files combined
- _100MB_ for each file individually
- _1MB_ for event payloads

Commit message:

ref: Tweak callout for using sentry-native

src/platforms/native/guides/minidumps/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Minidumps
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/minidump/
  - /platforms/native/minidump/
  - /clients/minidump/
---

Sentry can process Minidump crash reports, a memory dump used on Windows and by
open-source libraries like [_Breakpad_](/platforms/native/guides/breakpad/) or [_Crashpad_](/platforms/native/guides/crashpad/).

<Note>

We strongly encourage you to use a higher-level SDK if possible, as Minidumps uploads are very limited in functionality:

- [_Native (C/C++)_](/platforms/native/)
- [_Apple (Cocoa)_](/platforms/apple/)
- [_Electron_](/platforms/electron/)

</Note>

In order to receive symbolicated stack traces, you have to upload debug
information to Sentry. For more information, see [Debug Information Files](/workflow/debug-files/).

## What is a Minidump? {#what-is-a-minidump}

Minidumps are files containing the most important memory regions of a crashed
process. When the process crashes, the minidump is written to the user’s disk
and can later be uploaded to Sentry. A minidump typically includes:

- The runtime stack of each thread that was active during the time of the crash.
  This allows yout to reconstruct stack traces for all stacks and even infer
  variable values in some cases.
- Thread contexts -- that is, register values -- at the time of the crash. This
  is especially relevant for stack walking.
- Optionally, the process heap. By default, this is not included to keep
  minidumps at a reasonable size. Sentry does not read the heap so that it can
  be safely omitted.
- The crash reason and an optional memory address associated to with the crash.
  For example, memory access violations. In the case of assertions, the
  assertion message is also included in the dump.
- Meta data about the CPU architecture and the user’s operating system.

<Alert level="" title="A Word on Data Privacy"><markdown>

Minidumps are memory dumps of the process at the moment it crashes. As such,
they might contain sensitive information on the target system, such as
environment variables, local pathnames or maybe even in-memory representations
of input fields, including passwords. **Sentry does not store these memory
dumps**. Once processed, they are removed immediately, and all sensitive
information is stripped from the resulting issues.

</markdown></Alert>

In addition to this information, you can add further metadata specific to
Sentry, which can help in organizing and analyzing issues. For more information,
see [Passing Additional Data](#minidump-additional).

## Creating and Uploading Minidumps {#minidump-integration}

Depending on your operating system and programming language, there are various
alternatives to create minidumps and upload them to Sentry. See the following
resources for libraries that support generating minidump crash reports:

- [Native SDK](/platforms/native/)
- [Google Breakpad](/platforms/native/guides/breakpad/)
- [Google Crashpad](/platforms/native/guides/crashpad/)

If you have already integrated a library that generates minidumps and would just
like to upload them to Sentry, you need to configure the _Minidump Endpoint
URL_, which can be found at _Project Settings > Client Keys (DSN)_. This
endpoint expects a `POST` request with the minidump in the
`upload_file_minidump` field:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp
```

To send additional information, add more form fields to this request. For a full
description of fields accepted by Sentry, see [Passing Additional
Data](#minidump-additional).

## Passing Additional Data {#minidump-additional}

You can add more information to crash reports by merely adding more fields to
the upload HTTP request. All these fields will be collected in the “Extra Data”
section in Sentry:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F custom_field=value
```

Additionally, you can set all attributes corresponding to the Sentry event
interface in a `sentry` field. This field either accepts JSON data or its values
can be flattened with the bracket syntax. For example, to set the release and
add a tag, send:

```bash
# As JSON
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F 'sentry={"release":"1.2.3","tags":{"mytag":"value"}}'

# flattened
curl -X POST \
  '___MINIDUMP_URL___' \
  -F upload_file_minidump=@mini.dmp \
  -F 'sentry[release]=1.0.0' \
  -F 'sentry[tags][mytag]=value'
```

For the full list of supported values, see [_Event Payloads_](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/event-payloads/) and linked
documents.

## Size Limits

Event ingestion imposes limits on the size and number of fields in multipart
uploads. These limits are subject to future change and defined currently as:

- _20MB_ for a compressed minidump request
- _100MB_ for the full body after decompression
- _100MB_ for all files combined
- _100MB_ for each file individually
- _1MB_ for event payloads
