src/platforms/node/common/configuration/integrations/default-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Default Integrations
sidebar_order: 1000
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/node/default-integrations/
  - /platforms/node/integrations/default-integrations/
description: "Learn about default integrations, what they do, and how they hook into the standard library or the interpreter itself."
---

System integrations are integrations enabled by default that hook into the
standard library or the interpreter itself. They're documented so you can see
what they do and know how to disable them if they cause issues.

To disable _all_ default integrations, set `defaultIntegrations: false` when calling `init()`.

To disable one or more of the default integrations, pass in a function to the
`integrations` option when calling `init()`. The function should take an array
of default integrations and return a filtered array, excluding the integrations
you do not want to use.
For example, to disable the `Console` integration:
`integrations: defaults => defaults.filter(integration => integration.name !== 'Console')`.

To override an integration's settings, provide a new instance to the `integrations` option when calling `init()`.
For example, to change the fatal error handler:
`integrations: [new Sentry.Integrations.OnUncaughtException({ onFatalError: () => { /** your implementation */ } })]`.

## Core

### InboundFilters

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.InboundFilters`_

This integration allows developers to ignore specific errors based on the error message or the URL from which the exception originated.

To configure it, use the `ignoreErrors`, `denyUrls`, and `allowUrls` SDK options directly.
(Keep in mind that `denyUrls` and `allowUrls` only work for captured exceptions, not raw message events.)

### FunctionToString

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.FunctionToString`_

This integration allows the SDK to provide original function and method names, even when those functions or methods
are wrapped by our error or breadcrumb handlers.

## Node-specific

### Console

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Console`_

This integration wraps the `console` module in order to record all of its calls as breadcrumbs.

### Http

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Http`_

This integration wraps `http` and `https` modules to capture all network requests as breadcrumbs and/or tracing spans.

Available options:

```js
{
  breadcrumbs: boolean; // default: true
  tracing: boolean; // default: false
}
```

### OnUncaughtException

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.OnUncaughtException`_

This integration attaches a global uncaught exception handler. It can be modified to provide a custom shutdown function.

Available options:

```js
{
  onFatalError: (firstError: Error, secondError?: Error) => void;
}
```

### OnUnhandledRejection

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.OnUnhandledRejection`_

This integration attaches a global unhandled rejection handler. By default, all unhandled rejections trigger a warning and log the error. You can change this behavior using the `mode` option, which is in line with Node's CLI options: https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_unhandled_rejections_mode.

Available options:

```js
{
  mode: "none" | "warn" | "strict"; // default: "warn"
}
```

### LinkedErrors

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.LinkedErrors`_

This integration allows you to configure linked errors. They'll be recursively read up to a specified limit and lookup will be performed by a specific key. By default, the limit is set to 5 and the key used is `"cause"`.

Available options:

```js
{
  key: string; // default: "cause"
  limit: number; // default: 5
}
```

Commit message:

ref(node): Clarify usage of onFatalError option in node (#2643)
* ref(node): Clarify usage of onFatalError option in node

src/platforms/node/common/configuration/integrations/default-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Default Integrations
sidebar_order: 1000
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/node/default-integrations/
  - /platforms/node/integrations/default-integrations/
description: "Learn about default integrations, what they do, and how they hook into the standard library or the interpreter itself."
---

System integrations are integrations enabled by default that hook into the
standard library or the interpreter itself. They're documented so you can see
what they do and know how to disable them if they cause issues.

To disable _all_ default integrations, set `defaultIntegrations: false` when calling `init()`.

To disable one or more of the default integrations, pass in a function to the
`integrations` option when calling `init()`. The function should take an array
of default integrations and return a filtered array, excluding the integrations
you do not want to use.
For example, to disable the `Console` integration:
`integrations: defaults => defaults.filter(integration => integration.name !== 'Console')`.

To override an integration's settings, provide a new instance to the `integrations` option when calling `init()`.
For example, to change the fatal error handler:
`integrations: [new Sentry.Integrations.OnUncaughtException({ onFatalError: () => { /** your implementation */ } })]`.

## Core

### InboundFilters

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.InboundFilters`_

This integration allows developers to ignore specific errors based on the error message or the URL from which the exception originated.

To configure it, use the `ignoreErrors`, `denyUrls`, and `allowUrls` SDK options directly.
(Keep in mind that `denyUrls` and `allowUrls` only work for captured exceptions, not raw message events.)

### FunctionToString

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.FunctionToString`_

This integration allows the SDK to provide original function and method names, even when those functions or methods
are wrapped by our error or breadcrumb handlers.

## Node-specific

### Console

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Console`_

This integration wraps the `console` module in order to record all of its calls as breadcrumbs.

### Http

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.Http`_

This integration wraps `http` and `https` modules to capture all network requests as breadcrumbs and/or tracing spans.

Available options:

```js
{
  breadcrumbs: boolean; // default: true
  tracing: boolean; // default: false
}
```

### OnUncaughtException

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.OnUncaughtException`_

This integration attaches a global uncaught exception handler. It can be modified to provide a custom shutdown function.
The `onFatalError` option is meant to perform a cleanup before the process exits, not fully prevent it from exiting.

<Alert level="warning" title="Note">

Be aware that if you overwrite this setting, you will lose the default implementation, which handles draining queued events before exiting. If you want to examine how it works in order to be able to recreate it in your code, see the implementation of the [`logAndExitProcess`](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/master/packages/node/src/handlers.ts) function.

</Alert>

Available options:

```js
{
  onFatalError: (firstError: Error, secondError?: Error) => void;
}
```

### OnUnhandledRejection

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.OnUnhandledRejection`_

This integration attaches a global unhandled rejection handler. By default, all unhandled rejections trigger a warning and log the error. You can change this behavior using the `mode` option, which is in line with Node's CLI options: https://nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_unhandled_rejections_mode.

Available options:

```js
{
  mode: "none" | "warn" | "strict"; // default: "warn"
}
```

### LinkedErrors

_Import name: `Sentry.Integrations.LinkedErrors`_

This integration allows you to configure linked errors. They'll be recursively read up to a specified limit and lookup will be performed by a specific key. By default, the limit is set to 5 and the key used is `"cause"`.

Available options:

```js
{
  key: string; // default: "cause"
  limit: number; // default: 5
}
```
