src/docs/product/security/ip-ranges.mdx, before:

---
title: "IP Ranges"
sidebar_order: 5
redirect_from:
  - /ip-ranges/
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">
<markdown>

The contents of this page apply only to Sentry's SaaS product. It **does not**
apply to Self-hosted or Single Tenant.

</markdown>
</Alert>

Sentry is served from a single IP address for all web traffic and all event accepting. The IP address is:

```python
35.188.42.15/32
```

In some circumstances the Hosted Sentry infrastructure might send HTTP requests your way. Primarily this is relevant to [_JavaScript Source Maps_](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/), but also affects things like webhooks and other integrations.

Sentry uses the following IP addresses to make outbound requests:

```python
35.184.238.160/32
104.155.159.182/32
104.155.149.19/32
130.211.230.102/32
```

## Allowing Access via Nginx

To allow access to source maps with Nginx for instance, you can use this location example. This example assumes your source maps live in `/static/dist`:

```python
location ~ ^/static/dist/(.+)\.map$ {
    alias /your/path/site/static/dist/$1.map;

    allow 35.184.238.160/32;
    allow 104.155.159.182/32;
    allow 104.155.149.19/32;
    allow 130.211.230.102/32;
    deny all;
}
```

## Allowing Access via Apache

To allow access to source maps with Apache you can use this example. It can either go into your _.htaccess_ or global config. This example assumes your source maps live in `/static/dist`:

```
<FilesMatch "\.map$">
    Order deny,allow
    Deny from all
    Allow from 35.184.238.160/32
    Allow from 104.155.159.182/32
    Allow from 104.155.149.19/32
    Allow from 130.211.230.102/32
</FilesMatch>
```

## Email Delivery

All email is delivered from [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/) from the following static IP addresses:

```python
167.89.86.73
167.89.84.75
167.89.84.14
```

Commit message:

feat(ip-ranges): Add Organization Domain IP Address. (#2515)
* feat(ip-ranges): Add Organization Domain IP Address.

* first round of comments addressed

* Nail down date.

src/docs/product/security/ip-ranges.mdx, after:

---
title: "IP Ranges"
sidebar_order: 5
redirect_from:
  - /ip-ranges/
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">
<markdown>

The contents of this page apply only to Sentry's SaaS product. It **does not**
apply to Self-hosted or Single Tenant.

</markdown>
</Alert>

## Dashboard and API

Sentry's dashboard and API are both served from a single IP address for all web traffic. The IP address is:

```python
35.188.42.15/32
```

## Event Ingestion

Sentry's Event Ingestion respects two domains within a Data Source Name (DSN):
1. The [organization subdomain](https://forum.sentry.io/t/organization-subdomains-in-dsns/9360)
2. Sentry's apex domain

Sentry's apex domain accepts events from the same IP address as the Dashboard and API:

```python
35.188.42.15/32
```

Starting December 1st, 2020, Sentry's organization subdomains will migrate from the prior IP address to the following single address:

```python
34.120.195.249/32
```

## Outbound Requests

In some circumstances the Hosted Sentry infrastructure might send HTTP requests your way. Primarily this is relevant to [_JavaScript Source Maps_](/platforms/javascript/sourcemaps/), but also affects things like webhooks and other integrations.

Sentry uses the following IP addresses to make outbound requests:

```python
35.184.238.160/32
104.155.159.182/32
104.155.149.19/32
130.211.230.102/32
```

## Allowing Access via Nginx

To allow access to source maps with Nginx for instance, you can use this location example. This example assumes your source maps live in `/static/dist`:

```python
location ~ ^/static/dist/(.+)\.map$ {
    alias /your/path/site/static/dist/$1.map;

    allow 35.184.238.160/32;
    allow 104.155.159.182/32;
    allow 104.155.149.19/32;
    allow 130.211.230.102/32;
    deny all;
}
```

## Allowing Access via Apache

To allow access to source maps with Apache you can use this example. It can either go into your _.htaccess_ or global config. This example assumes your source maps live in `/static/dist`:

```
<FilesMatch "\.map$">
    Order deny,allow
    Deny from all
    Allow from 35.184.238.160/32
    Allow from 104.155.159.182/32
    Allow from 104.155.149.19/32
    Allow from 130.211.230.102/32
</FilesMatch>
```

## Email Delivery

All email is delivered from [SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/) from the following static IP addresses:

```python
167.89.86.73
167.89.84.75
167.89.84.14
```
