src/docs/product/security/ssl.mdx, before:

---
title: "SSL Protocols and Ciphers"
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /ssl/
description: "Learn how Sentry's SaaS product uses SSL Protocols and Ciphers for security and compatibility."
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

The contents of this page apply only to Sentry's SaaS product. It **does not**
apply to Self-hosted or Single Tenant.

</Alert>

Sentry's API, Dashboard, and Event Submission requires a minimum TLS version of 1.0 to communicate securely.

On January 5th, 2021, the minimum TLS version will be increased from 1.0 to 1.2.

Sentry provides a suite of protocols and ciphers that focus on giving our users a balance of security and compatibility. Our servers will negotiate a cipher to the most secure combination the client can support in the following preferential order:

- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

Commit message:

misc(ssl): Drop official support for weaker ciphers and disclaim that there might be unofficially higher rated ones. (#2745)
* misc(ssl): Drop official support for weaker ciphers and disclaim that there might be unofficially higher rated ones.

* Update src/docs/product/security/ssl.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

src/docs/product/security/ssl.mdx, after:

---
title: "SSL Protocols and Ciphers"
sidebar_order: 6
redirect_from:
  - /ssl/
description: "Learn how Sentry's SaaS product uses SSL Protocols and Ciphers for security and compatibility."
---

<Alert title="Note" level="warning">

The contents of this page apply only to Sentry's SaaS product. It **does not**
apply to Self-hosted or Single Tenant.

</Alert>

Sentry's API, Dashboard, and Event Submission requires a minimum TLS version of 1.0 to communicate securely.

On January 5th, 2021, the minimum TLS version will be increased from 1.0 to 1.2.

Sentry provides a suite of protocols and ciphers that focus on giving our users a balance of security and compatibility. Our servers will negotiate a cipher to the most secure combination the client can support in the following preferential order:

- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

This suite of protocols and ciphers represents Sentry's official support; however, clients may experience an agreement on individual ciphers that exceed the strength ratings of those listed above.
