src/platforms/native/guides/ue4/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Unreal Engine 4
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/unrealengine/
  - /platforms/native/ue4/
---

Installation of a Sentry SDK is not required in order to capture the crashes of your
UE4 application or game. Sentry supports the _UE4 Crash Reporter_.

To integrate your UE4 game or application with Sentry, the following steps are required:

1. Include the _UE4 Crash Reporter_ to your game or application.
2. Include Debug information in the crash reports.
3. Add the Sentry DSN to the relevant configuration file.
4. Upload your games symbols so Sentry can display function names and line numbers.
5. Optionally enable Event Attachments for your Sentry project.

Below we'll break down each step in detail.

## UE4 Crash reporter

The UE4 Crash Reporter is provided out of the box by Epic Games. It is able to collect relevant
information about the crash and send it to a service like Sentry to process.

Adding it to your game means that in case a crash happens, the following dialog is displayed
to the user:

![The UE4 Crash Reporter](ue4-crash-reporter.png)

### Include the UE4 Crash Reporter

You can add the _Crash Report Client_ to your game in your _Project Settings_.

The simplest way is to search the option: `Crash Reporter`:

![Include UE4 Crash Reporter](ue4-include-crash-reporter.png)

The option is located under _Project > Packaging_ menu, then select _show advanced_ followed by
checking the box for: `Include Crash Reporter`.

## Debug information

To get the most out of Sentry, crash reports are required to include debug information.
In order for Sentry to be able to process the crash report and translate
memory addresses to meaningful information like function names, module names
and line numbers, the crash itself must include debug information and also, [symbols need
to be uploaded to Sentry](#upload-debug-symbols).

### Include Debug Information

![Include Debug Files](ue4-include-debug-files.png)

The option is also located under _Project > Packaging_ menu, then select _show advanced_ followed by
checking the box for: `Include Debug Files`.

## Add the Sentry DSN

Now that the _Crash Reporter_ and _Debug Files_ are included, UE4 needs to know where to send the
crash. For that, we add the Sentry _DSN_ (Data Source Name) to game's configuration file. This will
include which project within Sentry you want to see the crashes arriving in real time.
That's accomplished by configuring the `CrashReportClient` in the _DefaultEngine.ini_ file.

Edit the file:

> project-root\Config\DefaultEngine.ini

Add the configuration section:

```ini {filename:DefaultEngine.ini}
[CrashReportClient]
CrashReportClientVersion=1.0
DataRouterUrl="___UNREAL_URL___"
```

<Alert level="info" title="Note">

If a `[CrashReportClient]` section already exists, simply changing the value of `DataRouterUrl`
is enough.

</Alert>

## Upload Debug Symbols {#upload-debug-symbols}

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_). We recommend
uploading debug information during your build or release process.

For all libraries where you'd like to receive symbolication, **you need
to provide debug information**. This includes dependencies and operating system
libraries. If you are not sure which files are required, go to _Project
Settings > Processing Issues_, which shows a list of all the necessary files and
instructions to retrieve them.

In addition to Debug Information Files, Sentry needs _Call Frame Information_
(CFI) to extract accurate stack traces from minidumps of optimized release
builds. CFI is usually part of the executables and not copied to debug symbols.
Unless you are uploading Breakpad symbols, be sure to also include the binaries
when uploading files to Sentry.

For more information on uploading debug information and their supported formats,
see [Debug Information Files](/workflow/debug-files/).

## Event Attachments

The files within the crash uploaded to Sentry can be persisted using _Event Attachments_. Learn more about these in [Attachments](enriching-events/attachments/).

## Size Limits

Event ingestion imposes limits on the size of UE4 crash reports. These limits
are subject to future change and defined currently as:

- _20MB_ for a compressed request
- _100MB_ for the full crash report after decompression

Commit message:

fix(unreal): Do not mention DSN in the context of UE4 (#2609)
Remove mentioning the DSN since correct configuration on UE4 requires
the Unreal Engine Endpoint instead of the DSN.

src/platforms/native/guides/ue4/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Unreal Engine 4
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/unrealengine/
  - /platforms/native/ue4/
---

Installation of a Sentry SDK is not required in order to capture the crashes of your
UE4 application or game. Sentry supports the _UE4 Crash Reporter_.

To integrate your UE4 game or application with Sentry, the following steps are required:

1. Include the _UE4 Crash Reporter_ to your game or application.
2. Include Debug information in the crash reports.
3. Add the Unreal Engine Endpoint to the relevant configuration file.
4. Upload your games symbols so Sentry can display function names and line numbers.
5. Optionally enable Event Attachments for your Sentry project.

Below we'll break down each step in detail.

## UE4 Crash reporter

The UE4 Crash Reporter is provided out of the box by Epic Games. It is able to collect relevant
information about the crash and send it to a service like Sentry to process.

Adding it to your game means that in case a crash happens, the following dialog is displayed
to the user:

![The UE4 Crash Reporter](ue4-crash-reporter.png)

### Include the UE4 Crash Reporter

You can add the _Crash Report Client_ to your game in your _Project Settings_.

The simplest way is to search the option: `Crash Reporter`:

![Include UE4 Crash Reporter](ue4-include-crash-reporter.png)

The option is located under _Project > Packaging_ menu, then select _show advanced_ followed by
checking the box for: `Include Crash Reporter`.

## Debug information

To get the most out of Sentry, crash reports are required to include debug information.
In order for Sentry to be able to process the crash report and translate
memory addresses to meaningful information like function names, module names
and line numbers, the crash itself must include debug information and also, [symbols need
to be uploaded to Sentry](#upload-debug-symbols).

### Include Debug Information

![Include Debug Files](ue4-include-debug-files.png)

The option is also located under _Project > Packaging_ menu, then select _show advanced_ followed by
checking the box for: `Include Debug Files`.

## Configure the Crash Reporter Endpoint

Now that the _Crash Reporter_ and _Debug Files_ are included, UE4 needs to know where to send the
crash. For that, we add the Sentry _Unreal Engine Endpoint_ from the _Client Keys_ settings page to game's configuration file. This will
include which project within Sentry you want to see the crashes arriving in real time.
That's accomplished by configuring the `CrashReportClient` in the _DefaultEngine.ini_ file.

Edit the file:

> project-root\Config\DefaultEngine.ini

Add the configuration section:

```ini {filename:DefaultEngine.ini}
[CrashReportClient]
CrashReportClientVersion=1.0
DataRouterUrl="___UNREAL_URL___"
```

<Alert level="info" title="Note">

If a `[CrashReportClient]` section already exists, simply changing the value of `DataRouterUrl`
is enough.

</Alert>

## Upload Debug Symbols {#upload-debug-symbols}

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_). We recommend
uploading debug information during your build or release process.

For all libraries where you'd like to receive symbolication, **you need
to provide debug information**. This includes dependencies and operating system
libraries. If you are not sure which files are required, go to _Project
Settings > Processing Issues_, which shows a list of all the necessary files and
instructions to retrieve them.

In addition to Debug Information Files, Sentry needs _Call Frame Information_
(CFI) to extract accurate stack traces from minidumps of optimized release
builds. CFI is usually part of the executables and not copied to debug symbols.
Unless you are uploading Breakpad symbols, be sure to also include the binaries
when uploading files to Sentry.

For more information on uploading debug information and their supported formats,
see [Debug Information Files](/workflow/debug-files/).

## Event Attachments

The files within the crash uploaded to Sentry can be persisted using _Event Attachments_. Learn more about these in [Attachments](enriching-events/attachments/).

## Size Limits

Event ingestion imposes limits on the size of UE4 crash reports. These limits
are subject to future change and defined currently as:

- _20MB_ for a compressed request
- _100MB_ for the full crash report after decompression
