src/platforms/apple/common/usage.mdx, before:

---
draft: false
categories: []
toc: true
title: Advanced Usage
tags: []
---

## Capturing uncaught exceptions on macOS

By default, MacOS applications do not crash whenever an uncaught exception occurs. To enable this with Sentry:

- Open the application's `Info.plist` file
- Search for `Principal class` (the entry is expected to be NSApplication)
- Replace `NSApplication` with `SentryCrashExceptionApplication`

## Dealing with Scopes

There are three different ways to interact with Scopes in the SDK. Either using [configureScope](#scope-configureScope), [passing a scope](#scope-pass) or using the [scope callback](#scope-callback).

### configureScope {#scope-configureScope}

Using `SentrySDK:configureScope` lets you set context data globally, which will be attached to all future events.

<PlatformContent includePath="configure-scope" />

### Passing a Scope Instance {#scope-pass}

Setting an instance of Scope is helpful when you want to completely control what should be attached to the event.

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/pass-scope" />

### Using Scope Callback {#scope-callback}

To maintain global state, but mutate context data for one capture call, use the Scope callback:

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/scope-callback" />

## Integrations

The SDK enables all integrations by default. To disable any of them:

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/integrations" />

#### SentryCrashIntegration

This integration is the core part of the SDK. It hooks into all signal and exception handlers to capture uncaught errors or crashes. This integration is also responsible for adding most of the device information to events. If it is disabled, you will not receive crash reports, nor will events contain much device data.

#### SentryAutoBreadcrumbTrackingIntegration

This integration will swizzle some methods to create breadcrumbs e.g.: for `UIApplicationDidReceiveMemoryWarningNotification`, `sendAction:to:from:forEvent:` (UI interactions) or `viewDidAppear:` those breadcrumbs will be attached to your events.

## Known Limitations

- We recommend upgrading to 6.x.x to get reliable <PlatformLink to="/configuration/releases/">Release Health</PlatformLink> data,
as we added many improvements over 5.x.x, in which we introduced Release Health.
- If you're currently using a version between 6.0.2 and 6.0.8, we **highly recommend** you upgrade to the latest version to avoid [a regression](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/pull/786) that affected the quality of the stacktraces and error messages, which was fixed in 6.0.9.
- Since version 6.0.0, this SDK can't be used on Macs with Apple Silicon when importing it via Carthage because of an [open issue in Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/issues/3019).

Commit message:

feat(apple): Add comment about min on-prem version (#2915)
Add a comment about Sentry on-prem minimum version since sentry-cocoa 6.0.0.

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

src/platforms/apple/common/usage.mdx, after:

---
draft: false
categories: []
toc: true
title: Advanced Usage
tags: []
---

## Capturing uncaught exceptions on macOS

By default, MacOS applications do not crash whenever an uncaught exception occurs. To enable this with Sentry:

- Open the application's `Info.plist` file
- Search for `Principal class` (the entry is expected to be NSApplication)
- Replace `NSApplication` with `SentryCrashExceptionApplication`

## Dealing with Scopes

There are three different ways to interact with Scopes in the SDK. Either using [configureScope](#scope-configureScope), [passing a scope](#scope-pass) or using the [scope callback](#scope-callback).

### configureScope {#scope-configureScope}

Using `SentrySDK:configureScope` lets you set context data globally, which will be attached to all future events.

<PlatformContent includePath="configure-scope" />

### Passing a Scope Instance {#scope-pass}

Setting an instance of Scope is helpful when you want to completely control what should be attached to the event.

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/pass-scope" />

### Using Scope Callback {#scope-callback}

To maintain global state, but mutate context data for one capture call, use the Scope callback:

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/scope-callback" />

## Integrations

The SDK enables all integrations by default. To disable any of them:

<PlatformContent includePath="cocoa/integrations" />

#### SentryCrashIntegration

This integration is the core part of the SDK. It hooks into all signal and exception handlers to capture uncaught errors or crashes. This integration is also responsible for adding most of the device information to events. If it is disabled, you will not receive crash reports, nor will events contain much device data.

#### SentryAutoBreadcrumbTrackingIntegration

This integration will swizzle some methods to create breadcrumbs e.g.: for `UIApplicationDidReceiveMemoryWarningNotification`, `sendAction:to:from:forEvent:` (UI interactions) or `viewDidAppear:` those breadcrumbs will be attached to your events.

## Known Limitations

- Since version 6.0.0 of this SDK, Sentry on-premises version greater than version 20.6.0 is required. If you are using sentry.io, no action is needed.
- We recommend upgrading to 6.x.x to get reliable <PlatformLink to="/configuration/releases/">Release Health</PlatformLink> data,
as we added many improvements over 5.x.x, in which we introduced Release Health.
- If you're currently using a version between 6.0.2 and 6.0.8, we **highly recommend** you upgrade to the latest version to avoid [a regression](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-cocoa/pull/786) that affected the quality of the stacktraces and error messages, which was fixed in 6.0.9.
- Since version 6.0.0, this SDK can't be used on Macs with Apple Silicon when importing it via Carthage because of an [open issue in Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/issues/3019).
