src/platforms/ruby/common/configuration/options.mdx, before:

---
title: Basic Options
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /clients/ruby/config/
  - /platforms/ruby/config/
description: "Learn more about how to configure the SDK."
---

Configuration is passed as part of the client initialization:

```ruby
Sentry.init do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'
  config.attr = 'value'
end
```

## Optional settings

`async`

: When an error or message occurs, the notification is immediately sent to Sentry, synchronously. This means that returning a response to a user may be delayed.

We recommend creating a background job, using your background job processor, that will send Sentry notifications. The client will pass a JSON-compatible Hash representation of the Event into the callback.

```ruby
config.async = lambda { |event|
  SentryJob.perform_later(event)
}
```

```ruby
class SentryJob < ActiveJob::Base
  queue_as :default

  def perform(event)
    Sentry.send_event(event)
  end
end
```

If the async callback raises an exception, Sentry will attempt to send synchronously.

`backtrace_cleanup_callback`

: If you want to clean up exceptions' backtrace before it's sent to Sentry, you can specify a callback with `backtrace_cleanup_callback` to do that. For example:

```ruby
config.backtrace_cleanup_callback = lambda do |backtrace|
  Rails.backtrace_cleaner.clean(backtrace)
end
```

`before_send`

: Provide a lambda or proc. This will be `called` before sending an event to Sentry. Receives an `event` and `hint` as parameter. `hint` is a dict `{:exception => ex | nil, :message => message | nil}`. It is possible to mutate the event, also if this function returns `nil` the event will be dropped and not sent.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send" />

`breadcrumbs_logger`

: Sentry supports two breadcrumbs loggers in the Ruby SDK:
- `SentryLogger` - A general breadcrumbs logger for all Ruby applications.
- `ActiveSupportLogger` - Built on top of Rails ActiveSupport's instrumentation and provides many Rails-specific information.

And you can enable them with the `breadcrumbs_logger` option:

```ruby
config.breadcrumbs_logger = :sentry_logger
config.breadcrumbs_logger = :active_support_logger
config.breadcrumbs_logger = [:sentry_logger, :active_support_logger]
```

`enabled_environments`

: As of v0.10.0, events will be sent to Sentry in all environments. If you do not wish to send events in an environment, we suggest you unset the SENTRY_DSN variable in that environment.

Alternately, you can configure Sentry to run only in certain environments by configuring the `enabled_environments` list. For example, to only run Sentry in production:

```ruby
config.enabled_environments = %w[production]
```

`environment`

: Sentry automatically sets the current environment to RAILS_ENV, or if it is not present, RACK_ENV. If you are using Sentry outside of Rack or Rails, or wish to override environment detection, you’ll need to set the current environment by setting SENTRY_CURRENT_ENV or configuring the client yourself:

<PlatformContent includePath="set-environment" />

`excluded_exceptions`

: If you never wish to be notified of certain exceptions, specify ‘excluded_exceptions’ in your config file.

In the example below, the exceptions Rails uses to generate 404 responses will be suppressed.

```ruby
config.excluded_exceptions += ['ActionController::RoutingError', 'ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound']
```

You can find the list of exceptions that are excluded by default in `Sentry::Configuration::IGNORE_DEFAULT`. It is suggested that you append to these defaults rather than overwrite them with `=`.

`inspect_exception_causes_for_exclusion`

: Inspect an incoming exception's causes when determining whether or not that exception should be excluded. This option works together with `excluded_exceptions`. Default value is `false`.

```ruby
config.inspect_exception_causes_for_exclusion = false
```

`logger`

: The logger used by Sentry. Default is an instance of Sentry::Logger.

```ruby
config.logger = Sentry::Logger.new(STDOUT)
```

Sentry respects logger levels.

`release`

: Track the version of your application in Sentry.

We guess the release intelligently in the following order of preference:

- Commit SHA of the last commit (git)
- Reading from the REVISION file in the app root
- Heroku’s dyno metadata (must have enabled via Heroku Labs)

<PlatformContent includePath="set-release" />

`sample_rate`

: The sampling factor to apply to events. A value of 0.00 will deny sending any events, and a value of 1.00 will send 100% of events.

```ruby
# send 50% of events
config.sample_rate = 0.5
```

`send_default_pii`

: When its value is `false` (default), sensitive information like

- user ip
- user cookie
- request body

will not be sent to Sentry.

You can re-enable it by setting:

```ruby
config.send_default_pii = true
```

## Tracing Options

`traces_sample_rate`

: By providing a float between `0.0` and `1.0`, you can control the sampling factor of tracing events.

- `nil` (default) or `0.0` means the tracing feature is disabled.
- `1.0` means sending all the events.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/traces-sample-rate" />

`traces_sampler`

: You can gain more control on tracing event (transaction)'s sampling decision by providing a callable object (`Proc` or `Lambda`) as a `traces_sampler`:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/dynamic-sampling-function-intro" />

## Transport Options

`transport_class`

: By default, the SDK uses `Sentry::HTTPTransport` class for sending events to Sentry, which should work for the majority of users. But if you want to use your own Transport class, you can change it with this option:

```ruby
config.transport.transport_class = MyTransportClass
```

## Environment Variables

`SENTRY_DSN`

: After you complete setting up a project, you’ll be given a value which we call a DSN, or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it’s actually just a representation of the configuration required by Sentry (the Sentry client). It consists of a few pieces, including the protocol, public and secret keys, the server address, and the project identifier.

With Sentry, you may either set the SENTRY_DSN environment variable (recommended), or set your DSN manually in a config block:

```ruby
# in Rails, this might be in config/initializers/sentry.rb
Sentry.init do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'
end
```

Commit message:

Documents update for Ruby SDK 4.1.0 (#2791)
* Update docs to reflect latest middlewares change

* Document the new background_worker_threads config option

src/platforms/ruby/common/configuration/options.mdx, after:

---
title: Basic Options
sidebar_order: 1
redirect_from:
  - /clients/ruby/config/
  - /platforms/ruby/config/
description: "Learn more about how to configure the SDK."
---

Configuration is passed as part of the client initialization:

```ruby
Sentry.init do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'
  config.attr = 'value'
end
```

## Optional settings

`async`

: When an error or message occurs, the notification is immediately sent to Sentry, synchronously. This means that returning a response to a user may be delayed.

We recommend creating a background job, using your background job processor, that will send Sentry notifications. The client will pass a JSON-compatible Hash representation of the Event into the callback.

```ruby
config.async = lambda { |event|
  SentryJob.perform_later(event)
}
```

```ruby
class SentryJob < ActiveJob::Base
  queue_as :default

  def perform(event)
    Sentry.send_event(event)
  end
end
```

If the async callback raises an exception, Sentry will attempt to send synchronously.

`background_worker_threads`

: If `config.async` isn't provided, Sentry will send events in a non-blocking way with its own background worker. By default, the worker holds a thread pool that has [the number of processors] threads. But you can configure it with this configuration option:

```ruby
config.background_worker_threads = 5
```

Or if you want to send events synchronously, set the value to 0:

```ruby
config.background_worker_threads = 0
```

`backtrace_cleanup_callback`

: If you want to clean up exceptions' backtrace before it's sent to Sentry, you can specify a callback with `backtrace_cleanup_callback` to do that. For example:

```ruby
config.backtrace_cleanup_callback = lambda do |backtrace|
  Rails.backtrace_cleaner.clean(backtrace)
end
```

`before_send`

: Provide a lambda or proc. This will be `called` before sending an event to Sentry. Receives an `event` and `hint` as parameter. `hint` is a dict `{:exception => ex | nil, :message => message | nil}`. It is possible to mutate the event, also if this function returns `nil` the event will be dropped and not sent.

<PlatformContent includePath="configuration/before-send" />

`breadcrumbs_logger`

: Sentry supports two breadcrumbs loggers in the Ruby SDK:
- `SentryLogger` - A general breadcrumbs logger for all Ruby applications.
- `ActiveSupportLogger` - Built on top of Rails ActiveSupport's instrumentation and provides many Rails-specific information.

And you can enable them with the `breadcrumbs_logger` option:

```ruby
config.breadcrumbs_logger = :sentry_logger
config.breadcrumbs_logger = :active_support_logger
config.breadcrumbs_logger = [:sentry_logger, :active_support_logger]
```

`enabled_environments`

: As of v0.10.0, events will be sent to Sentry in all environments. If you do not wish to send events in an environment, we suggest you unset the SENTRY_DSN variable in that environment.

Alternately, you can configure Sentry to run only in certain environments by configuring the `enabled_environments` list. For example, to only run Sentry in production:

```ruby
config.enabled_environments = %w[production]
```

`environment`

: Sentry automatically sets the current environment to RAILS_ENV, or if it is not present, RACK_ENV. If you are using Sentry outside of Rack or Rails, or wish to override environment detection, you’ll need to set the current environment by setting SENTRY_CURRENT_ENV or configuring the client yourself:

<PlatformContent includePath="set-environment" />

`excluded_exceptions`

: If you never wish to be notified of certain exceptions, specify ‘excluded_exceptions’ in your config file.

In the example below, the exceptions Rails uses to generate 404 responses will be suppressed.

```ruby
config.excluded_exceptions += ['ActionController::RoutingError', 'ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound']
```

You can find the list of exceptions that are excluded by default in `Sentry::Configuration::IGNORE_DEFAULT`. It is suggested that you append to these defaults rather than overwrite them with `=`.

`inspect_exception_causes_for_exclusion`

: Inspect an incoming exception's causes when determining whether or not that exception should be excluded. This option works together with `excluded_exceptions`. Default value is `false`.

```ruby
config.inspect_exception_causes_for_exclusion = false
```

`logger`

: The logger used by Sentry. Default is an instance of Sentry::Logger.

```ruby
config.logger = Sentry::Logger.new(STDOUT)
```

Sentry respects logger levels.

`release`

: Track the version of your application in Sentry.

We guess the release intelligently in the following order of preference:

- Commit SHA of the last commit (git)
- Reading from the REVISION file in the app root
- Heroku’s dyno metadata (must have enabled via Heroku Labs)

<PlatformContent includePath="set-release" />

`sample_rate`

: The sampling factor to apply to events. A value of 0.00 will deny sending any events, and a value of 1.00 will send 100% of events.

```ruby
# send 50% of events
config.sample_rate = 0.5
```

`send_default_pii`

: When its value is `false` (default), sensitive information like

- user ip
- user cookie
- request body

will not be sent to Sentry.

You can re-enable it by setting:

```ruby
config.send_default_pii = true
```

## Tracing Options

`traces_sample_rate`

: By providing a float between `0.0` and `1.0`, you can control the sampling factor of tracing events.

- `nil` (default) or `0.0` means the tracing feature is disabled.
- `1.0` means sending all the events.

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/traces-sample-rate" />

`traces_sampler`

: You can gain more control on tracing event (transaction)'s sampling decision by providing a callable object (`Proc` or `Lambda`) as a `traces_sampler`:

<PlatformContent includePath="performance/dynamic-sampling-function-intro" />

## Transport Options

`transport_class`

: By default, the SDK uses `Sentry::HTTPTransport` class for sending events to Sentry, which should work for the majority of users. But if you want to use your own Transport class, you can change it with this option:

```ruby
config.transport.transport_class = MyTransportClass
```

## Environment Variables

`SENTRY_DSN`

: After you complete setting up a project, you’ll be given a value which we call a DSN, or Data Source Name. It looks a lot like a standard URL, but it’s actually just a representation of the configuration required by Sentry (the Sentry client). It consists of a few pieces, including the protocol, public and secret keys, the server address, and the project identifier.

With Sentry, you may either set the SENTRY_DSN environment variable (recommended), or set your DSN manually in a config block:

```ruby
# in Rails, this might be in config/initializers/sentry.rb
Sentry.init do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'
end
```
