src/platforms/native/common/debug-information.mdx, before:

---
title: Uploading Debug Information
description: "Learn about allowing Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with symbolicated stack traces, by uploading Debug Information Files (sometimes also referred to as Debug Symbols or just Symbols)."
---

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_). We recommend
uploading debug information during your build or release process.

For all libraries where you'd like to receive symbolication, **you need
to provide debug information**. This includes dependencies and operating system
libraries. If you are not sure which files are required, go to _Project
Settings > Processing Issues_, which shows a list of all the necessary files and
instructions to retrieve them.

In addition to Debug Information Files, Sentry needs _Call Frame Information_
(CFI) to extract accurate stack traces from minidumps of optimized release
builds. CFI is usually part of the executables and not copied to debug symbols.
Unless you are uploading Breakpad symbols, be sure to also include the binaries
when uploading files to Sentry.

For more information on uploading debug information and their supported formats,
see [Debug Information Files](/workflow/debug-files/).

Commit message:

feat(wasm): Add initial docs for WASM (#2737)

src/platforms/native/common/debug-information.mdx, after:

---
title: Uploading Debug Information
description: "Learn about allowing Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with symbolicated stack traces, by uploading Debug Information Files (sometimes also referred to as Debug Symbols or just Symbols)."
---

To allow Sentry to fully process native crashes and provide you with
symbolicated stack traces, you need to upload _Debug Information Files_
(sometimes also referred to as _Debug Symbols_ or just _Symbols_). We recommend
uploading debug information during your build or release process.

For all libraries where you'd like to receive symbolication, **you need
to provide debug information**. This includes dependencies and operating system
libraries. If you are not sure which files are required, go to _Project
Settings > Processing Issues_, which shows a list of all the necessary files and
instructions to retrieve them.

<PlatformSection notSupported={["native.wasm"]}>

In addition to Debug Information Files, Sentry needs _Call Frame Information_
(CFI) to extract accurate stack traces from minidumps of optimized release
builds. CFI is usually part of the executables and not copied to debug symbols.
Unless you are uploading Breakpad symbols, be sure to also include the binaries
when uploading files to Sentry.
</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["native.wasm"]}>

For WASM, you need to provide both the debug information and the original code
in the same debug information file. To do this, we provide a custom
tool called [wasm-split](https://github.com/getsentry/symbolicator/tree/master/wasm-split)
that can do the splitting for you:

```shell
wasm-split /path/to/file.wasm -d /path/to/file.debug.wasm --strip
```

This command modifies the `file.wasm` in place to add the `build_id`, then removes all
debug information. The debug information is put in a `file.debug.wasm` which
then needs to be uploaded to Sentry.

</PlatformSection>

For more information on uploading debug information and their supported formats,
see [Debug Information Files](../data-management/debug-files/).
