src/platforms/javascript/common/performance/capturing/manual.mdx, before:

---
title: Manual Capture
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how to capture performance data on any action in your app."
---

### Manual Instrumentation

To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create transactions to capture them. This is valid for all JavaScript SDKs (both backend and frontend) and works independently of the `Express`, `Http`, and `BrowserTracing` integrations.

```javascript
const transaction = Sentry.startTransaction({ name: "test-transaction" });
const span = transaction.startChild({ op: "functionX" }); // This function returns a Span
// functionCallX
span.finish(); // Remember that only finished spans will be sent with the transaction
transaction.finish(); // Finishing the transaction will send it to Sentry
```

For example, if you want to create a transaction for a user interaction on your page, you can do this:

```javascript
// Let's say this function is invoked when a user clicks on the checkout button of your shop
shopCheckout() {
  // This will create a new Transaction for you
  const transaction = Sentry.startTransaction('shopCheckout');
  // set the transaction on the scope so it picks up any errors
  hub.configureScope(scope => scope.setSpan(transaction));

  // Assume this function makes an xhr/fetch call
  const result = validateShoppingCartOnServer();

  const span = transaction.startChild({
    data: {
      result
    },
    op: 'task',
    description: `processing shopping cart result`,
  });
  processAndValidateShoppingCart(result);
  span.finish();

  transaction.finish();
}
```

This example will send a transaction `shopCheckout` to Sentry. The transaction will contain a `task` span that measures how long `processAndValidateShoppingCart` took. Finally, the call to `transaction.finish()` will finish the transaction and send it to Sentry.

You can also take advantage of promises when creating spans for async operations. Keep in mind, though, that a span must finish before `transaction.finish()` is called in order to be included in the transaction.

For example:

```javascript
function processItem(item, transaction) {
  const span = transaction.startChild({
    op: "http",
    description: `GET /items/:item-id`,
  });

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    http.get(`/items/${item.id}`, response => {
      response.on("data", () => {});
      response.on("end", () => {
        span.setTag("http.status_code", response.statusCode);
        span.setData("http.foobarsessionid", getFoobarSessionid(response));
        span.finish();
        resolve(response);
      });
    });
  });
}
```

Commit message:

fix(tracing): Add link to Enabling Tracing page from Manual Capture page (#2710)

src/platforms/javascript/common/performance/capturing/manual.mdx, after:

---
title: Manual Capture
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how to capture performance data on any action in your app."
---

### Manual Instrumentation

**Note**: To manually capture transactions, you must first <PlatformLink to="/performance/">enable tracing in your app.</PlatformLink>

To manually instrument certain regions of your code, you can create transactions to capture them. This is valid for all JavaScript SDKs (both backend and frontend) and works independently of the `Express`, `Http`, and `BrowserTracing` integrations.

```javascript
const transaction = Sentry.startTransaction({ name: "test-transaction" });
const span = transaction.startChild({ op: "functionX" }); // This function returns a Span
// functionCallX
span.finish(); // Remember that only finished spans will be sent with the transaction
transaction.finish(); // Finishing the transaction will send it to Sentry
```

For example, if you want to create a transaction for a user interaction on your page, you can do this:

```javascript
// Let's say this function is invoked when a user clicks on the checkout button of your shop
shopCheckout() {
  // This will create a new Transaction for you
  const transaction = Sentry.startTransaction('shopCheckout');
  // set the transaction on the scope so it picks up any errors
  hub.configureScope(scope => scope.setSpan(transaction));

  // Assume this function makes an xhr/fetch call
  const result = validateShoppingCartOnServer();

  const span = transaction.startChild({
    data: {
      result
    },
    op: 'task',
    description: `processing shopping cart result`,
  });
  processAndValidateShoppingCart(result);
  span.finish();

  transaction.finish();
}
```

This example will send a transaction `shopCheckout` to Sentry. The transaction will contain a `task` span that measures how long `processAndValidateShoppingCart` took. Finally, the call to `transaction.finish()` will finish the transaction and send it to Sentry.

You can also take advantage of promises when creating spans for async operations. Keep in mind, though, that a span must finish before `transaction.finish()` is called in order to be included in the transaction.

For example:

```javascript
function processItem(item, transaction) {
  const span = transaction.startChild({
    op: "http",
    description: `GET /items/:item-id`,
  });

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    http.get(`/items/${item.id}`, response => {
      response.on("data", () => {});
      response.on("end", () => {
        span.setTag("http.status_code", response.statusCode);
        span.setData("http.foobarsessionid", getFoobarSessionid(response));
        span.finish();
        resolve(response);
      });
    });
  });
}
```
