src/wizard/ruby/index.md, before:

---
name: Ruby
doc_link: https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/
support_level: production
type: language
---

## Installation {#install}

Raven Ruby comes as a gem and is straightforward to install. If you are using Bundler just add this to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "sentry-raven"
```

## Configuration {#configure}

To use Raven Ruby all you need is your DSN. Like most Sentry libraries it will honor the `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable. You can find it on the project settings page under API Keys. You can either export it as environment variable or manually configure it with `Raven.configure`:

```ruby
Raven.configure do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'
end
```

## Reporting Failures

If you use Rails, Rake, Sidekiq, etc, you’re already done - no more configuration required! Check [_Integrations_](/platforms/ruby/configuration/integrations/) for more details on other gems Sentry integrates with automatically.

Rack requires a little more setup: [_Rack (Sinatra etc.)_](/platforms/ruby/guides/rack/)

Otherwise, Raven supports two methods of capturing exceptions:

```ruby
Raven.capture do
  # capture any exceptions which happen during execution of this block
  1 / 0
end

begin
  1 / 0
rescue ZeroDivisionError => exception
  Raven.capture_exception(exception)
end
```

You can add either of the snippets above into your application to verify that Sentry is set up correctly.

Commit message:

Sentry Ruby 4.0 (#2725)
* Move old Ruby docs into clients/ruby

* Remove documents for puma integration

* Update Ruby's getting started guide

* Update Ruby's configuration guide

* Update Enrich Event section

* Add Ruby's migration guide

* Update Rails' intro

* Update wizard docs

* Add basic performance monitoring guide for Ruby

* Rename tracing_context to sampling_context

* Correct wrong examples and reuse examples if possible

* Add Ruby's set level example

* Update migrations guide

* Update Rails' context example

* Improve config examples

* Add guideline for sidekiq

* Add example for Span#with_child_span

* Improve Ruby's getting started guide

* Improve migration guide

* Update src/platforms/ruby/common/performance/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

* Improve wizards

* Update comments for tracing config samples

* Remove outdated Rails index

Co-authored-by: Fiona <61481573+PeloWriter@users.noreply.github.com>

src/wizard/ruby/index.md, after:

---
name: Ruby
doc_link: https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/ruby/
support_level: production
type: language
---

## Installation {#install}

Sentry Ruby comes as a gem and is straightforward to install. If you are using Bundler just add this to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "sentry-ruby"
```

## Configuration {#configure}

To use Sentry Ruby all you need is your DSN. Like most Sentry libraries it will honor the `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable. You can find it on the project settings page under API Keys. You can either export it as environment variable or manually configure it with `Sentry.init`:

```ruby
Sentry.init do |config|
  config.dsn = '___PUBLIC_DSN___'

  # To activate performance monitoring, set one of these options.
  # We recommend adjusting the value in production:
  config.traces_sample_rate = 0.5
  # or
  config.traces_sampler = lambda do |context|
    true
  end
end
```

## Usage {#usage}

You can then report errors or messages to Sentry:

```ruby
begin
  1 / 0
rescue ZeroDivisionError => exception
  Sentry.capture_exception(exception)
end

Sentry.capture_message("test message")
```
